src/api/database/common.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _api/db:

``/db``
=======

.. http:head:: /{db}

  Returns the HTTP Headers containing a minimal amount of information
  about the specified database. Since the response body is empty, using the
  HEAD method is a lightweight way to check if the database exists already or
  not.

  :param db: Database name
  :code 200: Database exists
  :code 404: Requested database not found

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HEAD /test HTTP/1.1
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 01:27:41 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)


.. http:get:: /{db}

  Gets information about the specified database.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>json number committed_update_seq: The number of committed update.
  :>json boolean compact_running: Set to ``true`` if the database compaction
    routine is operating on this database.
  :>json string db_name: The name of the database.
  :>json number disk_format_version: The version of the physical format used
    for the data when it is stored on disk.
  :>json number disk_size: Size in bytes of the data as stored on the disk.
    Views indexes are not included in the calculation.
  :>json number doc_count: A count of the documents in the specified database.
  :>json number doc_del_count: Number of deleted documents
  :>json string instance_start_time: Timestamp of when the database was opened,
    expressed in microseconds since the epoch.
  :>json number purge_seq: The number of purge operations on the database.
  :>json number update_seq: The current number of updates to the database.
  :code 200: Request completed successfully
  :code 404: Requested database not found

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    GET /receipts HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 258
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 01:38:57 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "committed_update_seq": 292786,
        "compact_running": false,
        "data_size": 65031503,
        "db_name": "receipts",
        "disk_format_version": 6,
        "disk_size": 137433211,
        "doc_count": 6146,
        "doc_del_count": 64637,
        "instance_start_time": "1376269325408900",
        "purge_seq": 0,
        "update_seq": 292786
    }


.. http:put:: /{db}

  Creates a new database. The database name ``{db}`` must be composed by
  following next rules:

  -  Name must begin with a lowercase letter (``a-z``)

  -  Lowercase characters (``a-z``)

  -  Digits (``0-9``)

  -  Any of the characters ``_``, ``$``, ``(``, ``)``, ``+``, ``-``, and
     ``/``.

  If you're familiar with `Regular Expressions`_, the rules above could be
  written as ``^[a-z][a-z0-9_$()+/-]*$``.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>header Location: Database URI location
  :>json boolean ok: Operation status. Available in case of success
  :>json string error: Error type. Available if response code is ``4xx``
  :>json string reason: Error description. Available if response code is ``4xx``
  :code 201: Database created successfully
  :code 400: Invalid database name
  :code 401: CouchDB Server Administrator privileges required
  :code 412: Database already exists

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    PUT /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 12
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:01:45 GMT
    Location: http://localhost:5984/db
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "ok": true
    }

  If we repeat the same request to CouchDB, it will response with :code:`412`
  since the database already exists:

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    PUT /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 412 Precondition Failed
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 95
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:01:16 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "error": "file_exists",
        "reason": "The database could not be created, the file already exists."
    }

  If an invalid database name is supplied, CouchDB returns response with :code:`400`:

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    PUT /_db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 194
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:02:10 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "error": "illegal_database_name",
        "reason": "Name: '_db'. Only lowercase characters (a-z), digits (0-9), and any of the characters _, $, (, ), +, -, and / are allowed. Must begin with a letter."
    }


.. http:delete:: /{db}

  Deletes the specified database, and all the documents and attachments
  contained within it.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>json boolean ok: Operation status
  :code 200: Database removed successfully
  :code 400: Invalid database name
  :code 401: CouchDB Server Administrator privileges required
  :code 404: Database doesn't exist

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    DELETE /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 12
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:54:00 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "ok": true
    }


.. http:post:: /{db}

  Creates a new document in the specified database, using the supplied JSON
  document structure.

  If the JSON structure includes the ``_id`` field, then the document will be
  created with the specified document ID.

  If the ``_id`` field is not specified, a new unique ID will be generated,
  following whatever UUID algorithm is configured for that server.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :<header Content-Type: :mimetype:`application/json`
  :<header X-Couch-Full-Commit: Overrides server's
    :config:option:`commit policy <couchdb/delayed_commits>`. Possible values
    are: ``false`` and ``true``. *Optional*.
  :query string batch: Stores document in :ref:`batch mode
    <api/doc/batch-writes>` Possible values: ``ok``. *Optional*
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>header ETag: Quoted new document's revision
  :>header Location: Document's URI
  :>json string id: Document ID
  :>json boolean ok: Operation status
  :>json string rev: Revision info
  :code 201: Document created and stored on disk
  :code 202: Document data accepted, but not yet stored on disk
  :code 400: Invalid database name
  :code 401: Write privileges required
  :code 404: Database doesn't exist
  :code 409: A Conflicting Document with same ID already exists

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    POST /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Length: 81
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
        "servings": 4,
        "subtitle": "Delicious with fresh bread",
        "title": "Fish Stew"
    }

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 95
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 15:19:25 GMT
    ETag: "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    Location: http://localhost:5984/db/ab39fe0993049b84cfa81acd6ebad09d
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "id": "ab39fe0993049b84cfa81acd6ebad09d",
        "ok": true,
        "rev": "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    }


Specifying the Document ID
--------------------------

The document ID can be specified by including the ``_id`` field in the
JSON of the submitted record. The following request will create the same
document with the ID ``FishStew``.

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    POST /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Length: 98
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
        "_id": "FishStew",
        "servings": 4,
        "subtitle": "Delicious with fresh bread",
        "title": "Fish Stew"
    }

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 71
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 15:19:25 GMT
    ETag: "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    Location: http://localhost:5984/db/FishStew
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "id": "FishStew",
        "ok": true,
        "rev": "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    }


.. _api/doc/batch-writes:

Batch Mode Writes
-----------------

You can write documents to the database at a higher rate by using the
batch option. This collects document writes together in memory (on a
user-by-user basis) before they are committed to disk. This increases
the risk of the documents not being stored in the event of a failure,
since the documents are not written to disk immediately.

To use the batched mode, append the ``batch=ok`` query argument to the
URL of the ``PUT`` or :post:`/{db}` request. The CouchDB server will
respond with a HTTP :statuscode:`202` response code immediately.

.. note::

   Creating or updating documents with batch mode doesn't guarantee that all
   documents will be successfully stored on disk. For example, individual
   documents may not be saved due to conflicts, rejection by
   :ref:`validation function <vdufun>` or by other reasons, even if overall
   the batch was sucessfully submitted.

**Request**:

.. code-block:: http

  POST /db?batch=ok HTTP/1.1
  Accept: application/json
  Content-Length: 98
  Content-Type: application/json

  {
      "_id": "FishStew",
      "servings": 4,
      "subtitle": "Delicious with fresh bread",
      "title": "Fish Stew"
  }

**Response**:

.. code-block:: http

  HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted
  Cache-Control: must-revalidate
  Content-Length: 28
  Content-Type: application/json
  Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 15:19:25 GMT
  Location: http://localhost:5984/db/FishStew
  Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

  {
      "id": "FishStew",
      "ok": true
  }

.. _Regular Expressions: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression

Commit message:

Docs: add synopsis, deprecated and noindex options to HTTP endpoints
Synopsis is the short description of the HTTP endpoint that used in
the generated API reference.

Deprecated option, if specified, adds special remark to the endpoint
description in the same reference.

Noindex excludes endpoint from the reference.

The old source of synopsises is removed.

src/api/database/common.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _api/db:

``/db``
=======

.. http:head:: /{db}
  :synopsis: Checks the database existence

  Returns the HTTP Headers containing a minimal amount of information
  about the specified database. Since the response body is empty, using the
  HEAD method is a lightweight way to check if the database exists already or
  not.

  :param db: Database name
  :code 200: Database exists
  :code 404: Requested database not found

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HEAD /test HTTP/1.1
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 01:27:41 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)


.. http:get:: /{db}
  :synopsis: Returns the database information

  Gets information about the specified database.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>json number committed_update_seq: The number of committed update.
  :>json boolean compact_running: Set to ``true`` if the database compaction
    routine is operating on this database.
  :>json string db_name: The name of the database.
  :>json number disk_format_version: The version of the physical format used
    for the data when it is stored on disk.
  :>json number disk_size: Size in bytes of the data as stored on the disk.
    Views indexes are not included in the calculation.
  :>json number doc_count: A count of the documents in the specified database.
  :>json number doc_del_count: Number of deleted documents
  :>json string instance_start_time: Timestamp of when the database was opened,
    expressed in microseconds since the epoch.
  :>json number purge_seq: The number of purge operations on the database.
  :>json number update_seq: The current number of updates to the database.
  :code 200: Request completed successfully
  :code 404: Requested database not found

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    GET /receipts HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 258
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 01:38:57 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "committed_update_seq": 292786,
        "compact_running": false,
        "data_size": 65031503,
        "db_name": "receipts",
        "disk_format_version": 6,
        "disk_size": 137433211,
        "doc_count": 6146,
        "doc_del_count": 64637,
        "instance_start_time": "1376269325408900",
        "purge_seq": 0,
        "update_seq": 292786
    }


.. http:put:: /{db}
  :synopsis: Creates a new database

  Creates a new database. The database name ``{db}`` must be composed by
  following next rules:

  -  Name must begin with a lowercase letter (``a-z``)

  -  Lowercase characters (``a-z``)

  -  Digits (``0-9``)

  -  Any of the characters ``_``, ``$``, ``(``, ``)``, ``+``, ``-``, and
     ``/``.

  If you're familiar with `Regular Expressions`_, the rules above could be
  written as ``^[a-z][a-z0-9_$()+/-]*$``.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>header Location: Database URI location
  :>json boolean ok: Operation status. Available in case of success
  :>json string error: Error type. Available if response code is ``4xx``
  :>json string reason: Error description. Available if response code is ``4xx``
  :code 201: Database created successfully
  :code 400: Invalid database name
  :code 401: CouchDB Server Administrator privileges required
  :code 412: Database already exists

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    PUT /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 12
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:01:45 GMT
    Location: http://localhost:5984/db
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "ok": true
    }

  If we repeat the same request to CouchDB, it will response with :code:`412`
  since the database already exists:

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    PUT /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 412 Precondition Failed
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 95
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:01:16 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "error": "file_exists",
        "reason": "The database could not be created, the file already exists."
    }

  If an invalid database name is supplied, CouchDB returns response with :code:`400`:

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    PUT /_db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 194
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:02:10 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "error": "illegal_database_name",
        "reason": "Name: '_db'. Only lowercase characters (a-z), digits (0-9), and any of the characters _, $, (, ), +, -, and / are allowed. Must begin with a letter."
    }


.. http:delete:: /{db}
  :synopsis: Deletes an existing database

  Deletes the specified database, and all the documents and attachments
  contained within it.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>json boolean ok: Operation status
  :code 200: Database removed successfully
  :code 400: Invalid database name
  :code 401: CouchDB Server Administrator privileges required
  :code 404: Database doesn't exist

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    DELETE /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 12
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2013 08:54:00 GMT
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "ok": true
    }


.. http:post:: /{db}
  :synopsis: Creates a new document with generic ID if he had not specified

  Creates a new document in the specified database, using the supplied JSON
  document structure.

  If the JSON structure includes the ``_id`` field, then the document will be
  created with the specified document ID.

  If the ``_id`` field is not specified, a new unique ID will be generated,
  following whatever UUID algorithm is configured for that server.

  :param db: Database name
  :<header Accept: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                   - :mimetype:`text/plain`
  :<header Content-Type: :mimetype:`application/json`
  :<header X-Couch-Full-Commit: Overrides server's
    :config:option:`commit policy <couchdb/delayed_commits>`. Possible values
    are: ``false`` and ``true``. *Optional*.
  :query string batch: Stores document in :ref:`batch mode
    <api/doc/batch-writes>` Possible values: ``ok``. *Optional*
  :>header Content-Type: - :mimetype:`application/json`
                         - :mimetype:`text/plain; charset=utf-8`
  :>header ETag: Quoted new document's revision
  :>header Location: Document's URI
  :>json string id: Document ID
  :>json boolean ok: Operation status
  :>json string rev: Revision info
  :code 201: Document created and stored on disk
  :code 202: Document data accepted, but not yet stored on disk
  :code 400: Invalid database name
  :code 401: Write privileges required
  :code 404: Database doesn't exist
  :code 409: A Conflicting Document with same ID already exists

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    POST /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Length: 81
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
        "servings": 4,
        "subtitle": "Delicious with fresh bread",
        "title": "Fish Stew"
    }

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 95
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 15:19:25 GMT
    ETag: "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    Location: http://localhost:5984/db/ab39fe0993049b84cfa81acd6ebad09d
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "id": "ab39fe0993049b84cfa81acd6ebad09d",
        "ok": true,
        "rev": "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    }


Specifying the Document ID
--------------------------

The document ID can be specified by including the ``_id`` field in the
JSON of the submitted record. The following request will create the same
document with the ID ``FishStew``.

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    POST /db HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Length: 98
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
        "_id": "FishStew",
        "servings": 4,
        "subtitle": "Delicious with fresh bread",
        "title": "Fish Stew"
    }

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Length: 71
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 15:19:25 GMT
    ETag: "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    Location: http://localhost:5984/db/FishStew
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

    {
        "id": "FishStew",
        "ok": true,
        "rev": "1-9c65296036141e575d32ba9c034dd3ee"
    }


.. _api/doc/batch-writes:

Batch Mode Writes
-----------------

You can write documents to the database at a higher rate by using the
batch option. This collects document writes together in memory (on a
user-by-user basis) before they are committed to disk. This increases
the risk of the documents not being stored in the event of a failure,
since the documents are not written to disk immediately.

To use the batched mode, append the ``batch=ok`` query argument to the
URL of the ``PUT`` or :post:`/{db}` request. The CouchDB server will
respond with a HTTP :statuscode:`202` response code immediately.

.. note::

   Creating or updating documents with batch mode doesn't guarantee that all
   documents will be successfully stored on disk. For example, individual
   documents may not be saved due to conflicts, rejection by
   :ref:`validation function <vdufun>` or by other reasons, even if overall
   the batch was sucessfully submitted.

**Request**:

.. code-block:: http

  POST /db?batch=ok HTTP/1.1
  Accept: application/json
  Content-Length: 98
  Content-Type: application/json

  {
      "_id": "FishStew",
      "servings": 4,
      "subtitle": "Delicious with fresh bread",
      "title": "Fish Stew"
  }

**Response**:

.. code-block:: http

  HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted
  Cache-Control: must-revalidate
  Content-Length: 28
  Content-Type: application/json
  Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 15:19:25 GMT
  Location: http://localhost:5984/db/FishStew
  Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

  {
      "id": "FishStew",
      "ok": true
  }

.. _Regular Expressions: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression
