src/api/database/temp-views.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.


.. _api/db/temp_view:

``/db/_temp_view``
==================

.. http:post:: /{db}/_temp_view

  Creates (and executes) a temporary view based on the view function
  supplied in the JSON request.

  The arguments also available to standard view requests also apply to
  temporary views, but the execution of the view may take some time as it
  relies on being executed at the time of the request. This means that for
  every temporary view you create, the entire database will be read
  one doc at a time and passed through the view function.

  This should not be used on production CouchDB instances, and is purely a
  convenience function for quick development testing. You should use a
  defined view if you want to achieve the best performance.

  See :ref:`api/ddoc/view` for more info.

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    POST /db/_temp_view?group=true HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Length: 92
    Content-Type: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

    {
        "map": "function(doc) { if (doc.value) { emit(doc.value, null); } }",
        "reduce": "_count"
    }

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 12:28:12 GMT
    ETag: "AU33B3N7S9K4SAZSFA048HVB4"
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
    Transfer-Encoding: chunked

    {
        "rows": [
            {
                "key": -10,
                "value": 1
            },
            {
                "key": 10,
                "value": 2
            },
            {
                "key": 15,
                "value": 1
            }
        ]
    }

Commit message:

Docs: add synopsis, deprecated and noindex options to HTTP endpoints
Synopsis is the short description of the HTTP endpoint that used in
the generated API reference.

Deprecated option, if specified, adds special remark to the endpoint
description in the same reference.

Noindex excludes endpoint from the reference.

The old source of synopsises is removed.

src/api/database/temp-views.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.


.. _api/db/temp_view:

``/db/_temp_view``
==================

.. http:post:: /{db}/_temp_view
  :synopsis: Executes a given view function for all documents and returns the result

  Creates (and executes) a temporary view based on the view function
  supplied in the JSON request.

  The arguments also available to standard view requests also apply to
  temporary views, but the execution of the view may take some time as it
  relies on being executed at the time of the request. This means that for
  every temporary view you create, the entire database will be read
  one doc at a time and passed through the view function.

  This should not be used on production CouchDB instances, and is purely a
  convenience function for quick development testing. You should use a
  defined view if you want to achieve the best performance.

  See :ref:`api/ddoc/view` for more info.

  **Request**:

  .. code-block:: http

    POST /db/_temp_view?group=true HTTP/1.1
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Length: 92
    Content-Type: application/json
    Host: localhost:5984

    {
        "map": "function(doc) { if (doc.value) { emit(doc.value, null); } }",
        "reduce": "_count"
    }

  **Response**:

  .. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Cache-Control: must-revalidate
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2013 12:28:12 GMT
    ETag: "AU33B3N7S9K4SAZSFA048HVB4"
    Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
    Transfer-Encoding: chunked

    {
        "rows": [
            {
                "key": -10,
                "value": 1
            },
            {
                "key": 10,
                "value": 2
            },
            {
                "key": 15,
                "value": 1
            }
        ]
    }
