src/whatsnew/1.5.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.


.. _release/1.5.x:

============
1.5.x Branch
============

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:

.. _release/1.5.1:

Version 1.5.1
=============

* Add the ``max_count`` option (:ref:`config/uuids`) to allow rate-limiting
  the amount of UUIDs that can be requested from the :ref:`api/server/uuids`
  handler in a single request.

.. _release/1.5.0:

Version 1.5.0
=============

* :issue:`1781`: The official documentation has been overhauled. A lot of
  content from other sources have been merged, and the index page
  has been rebuilt to make the docs much more accessible.
  :commit:`54813a7`
* A new administration UI, codenamed Fauxton, has been included as an
  experimental preview. It can be accessed at ``/_utils/fauxton/``. There
  are too many improvements here to list them all. We are looking for
  feedback from the community on this preview release.
* :issue:`1888`: Fixed an issue where admin users would be restricted by
  the ``public_fields`` feature.
* Fixed an issue with the JavaScript CLI test runner. :commit:`be76882`,
  :commit:`54813a7`
* :issue:`1867`: An experimental plugin feature has been added. See
  ``src/couch_plugin/README.md`` for details. We invite the community to
  test and report any findings.
* :issue:`1894`: An experimental Node.js-based query server runtime
  has been added. See :ref:`experimental` for details. We invite the
  community to test and report any findings.
* :issue:`1901`: Better retry mechanism for transferring attachments
  during replication. :commit:`4ca2cec`

Commit message:

Add CVE-2014-2668 warning to old release branches

src/whatsnew/1.5.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.


.. _release/1.5.x:

============
1.5.x Branch
============

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:

.. warning::

   :ref:`release/1.5.1` contains important security fixes. Previous `1.5.x`
   releases are not recommended for regular usage.

.. _release/1.5.1:

Version 1.5.1
=============

* Add the ``max_count`` option (:ref:`config/uuids`) to allow rate-limiting
  the amount of UUIDs that can be requested from the :ref:`api/server/uuids`
  handler in a single request (:ref:`CVE 2014-2668 <cve/2014-2668>`).

.. _release/1.5.0:

Version 1.5.0
=============

* :issue:`1781`: The official documentation has been overhauled. A lot of
  content from other sources have been merged, and the index page
  has been rebuilt to make the docs much more accessible.
  :commit:`54813a7`
* A new administration UI, codenamed Fauxton, has been included as an
  experimental preview. It can be accessed at ``/_utils/fauxton/``. There
  are too many improvements here to list them all. We are looking for
  feedback from the community on this preview release.
* :issue:`1888`: Fixed an issue where admin users would be restricted by
  the ``public_fields`` feature.
* Fixed an issue with the JavaScript CLI test runner. :commit:`be76882`,
  :commit:`54813a7`
* :issue:`1867`: An experimental plugin feature has been added. See
  ``src/couch_plugin/README.md`` for details. We invite the community to
  test and report any findings.
* :issue:`1894`: An experimental Node.js-based query server runtime
  has been added. See :ref:`experimental` for details. We invite the
  community to test and report any findings.
* :issue:`1901`: Better retry mechanism for transferring attachments
  during replication. :commit:`4ca2cec`
