src/whatsnew/2.0.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _release/2.0.x:

============
2.0.x Branch
============

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

.. _release/2.0.0:

Version 2.0.0
=============

* Native clustering is now supported. Rather than use CouchDB replication
  between multiple, distinct CouchDB servers, configure a cluster of CouchDB
  nodes. These nodes will use an optimized Erlang-driven 'internal replication'
  to ensure data durability and accessibility. Combine a clustered CouchDB with
  a load balancer (such as ``haproxy``) to scale CouchDB out horizontally. More
  details of the clustering feature are available in the :ref:`cluster`.
* `Futon` replaced by brand-new, completely re-engineered `Fauxton` interface.
  URL remains the same.
* The new Mango Query Server provides a simple JSON-based way to perform CouchDB
  queries without JavaScript or MapReduce. Further details are available in the
  :ref:`_find, _index and _explain API <api/db/_find>`.
* Mango :ref:`selectors <changes/filter/selector>` can be used in _changes
  feeds instead of JavaScript MapReduce filters. Mango has been tested to be
  up to an order of magnitude (10x) faster than JavaScript in this application.
* :ref:`Rewrite rules <api/ddoc/rewrite>` for URLs can be performed using
  JavaScript functions.
* :ref:`Multiple queries <api/ddoc/view/multiple_queries>` can be made of a
  view with a single HTTP request.
* Views can be queried with sorting turned off ( ``sorted=false``) for a
  performance boost.
* The update sequences returned by the :ref:`api/db/changes` feed are no longer
  just integers. They can be any JSON value.
* The global changes feed has been enhanced. It is now resumable and persistent.
* New endpoints added (documentation forthcoming for some):

  * :ref:`api/server/membership`
  * ``/_bulk_get``
  * ``/_node/``
  * ``/_cluster_setup``
  * ``/_up``
  * ``/db/_local_docs`` and ``/db/_design_docs`` (similar to ``/db/_all_docs``)

* "Backend" interface on port 5986 used for specific cluster admin tasks. Of
  interest are the ``_nodes`` and ``_dbs`` databases visible only through this
  interface.
* Support added for Erlang/OTP 17.x, 18.x and 19
* New streamlined build system written for Microsoft Windows

.. _release/2.0.x/upgrade:

Upgrade Notes
=============

* Temporary views are no longer supported.
* It is possible to have multiple replicator databases.
  ``replicator/db`` config option has been removed.
  Instead ``_replicator`` and any database names ending
  with the ``/_replicator`` suffix will be recognized as
  replicator databases by the system.
* Note that the semantics of some API calls have changed due to the introduction
  of the clustering feature. Specifically, make note of the difference between
  receiving a ``201`` and a ``202`` when storing a document.
* ``all_or_nothing`` is no longer supported by the :ref:`bulk_docs
  <api/db/bulk_docs>` API

.. _release/2.0.x/knownissues:

Known Issues
============

All `known issues`_ filed against the 2.0 release are contained within the
official `CouchDB JIRA instance`.

The following are some highlights of known issues for which fixes did not land
in time for the 2.0.0 release:

* :issue:`2980`: The replicator (whether invoked via ``_replicate`` or a
  document stored in the ``_replicator`` database) understands two kinds of
  source and target:

  #. A URL (e.g., ``https://foo:bar@foo.com/db1``), called a "remote" source or
     target
  #. A database name (e.g., ``db1``), called a "local" source or target.

  Whenever the latter type is used, this refers to a local unclustered
  database, not a clustered one.

  In a future release we hope to support "local" source or target specs to
  clustered databases. For now, we recommend always using the URL format for
  both source and target specifications.
* :issue:`3034`: CouchDB will occasionally return 500 errors when multiple
  clients attempt to PUT or DELETE the same database concurrently.
* :issue:`3119`: Adding nodes to a cluster fails if the Erlang node name
  is not ``couchdb`` (of the form ``couchdb@hostname``.)
* :issue:`3050`: Occasionally the ``dev/run`` script used for development
  purposes to start a local 3-node cluster will fail to start one or more
  nodes.
* :issue:`2817`: The compaction daemon will only compact views for shards
  that contain the design document.
* :issue:`2804`: The fast_view optimization is not enabled on the clustered
  interface.

.. _known issues: https://s.apache.org/couchdb-2.0-known-issues
.. _CouchDB JIRA instance: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB

Commit message:

feat(whatsnew): expand mango entry

src/whatsnew/2.0.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _release/2.0.x:

============
2.0.x Branch
============

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

.. _release/2.0.0:

Version 2.0.0
=============

* Native clustering is now supported. Rather than use CouchDB replication
  between multiple, distinct CouchDB servers, configure a cluster of CouchDB
  nodes. These nodes will use an optimized Erlang-driven 'internal replication'
  to ensure data durability and accessibility. Combine a clustered CouchDB with
  a load balancer (such as ``haproxy``) to scale CouchDB out horizontally. More
  details of the clustering feature are available in the :ref:`cluster`.
* `Futon` replaced by brand-new, completely re-engineered `Fauxton` interface.
  URL remains the same.
* The new Mango Query Server provides a simple JSON-based way to perform CouchDB
  queries without JavaScript or MapReduce. Mango Queries have a similar indexing
  speed advantage over JavaScript Quries than the Erlang Queries have (2x-10x
  faster indexing depending on doc size and system configuration). We recommend
  all new apps start using Mango as a default. Further details are available
  in the :ref:`_find, _index and _explain API <api/db/_find>`.
* Mango :ref:`selectors <changes/filter/selector>` can be used in _changes
  feeds instead of JavaScript MapReduce filters. Mango has been tested to be
  up to an order of magnitude (10x) faster than JavaScript in this application.
* :ref:`Rewrite rules <api/ddoc/rewrite>` for URLs can be performed using
  JavaScript functions.
* :ref:`Multiple queries <api/ddoc/view/multiple_queries>` can be made of a
  view with a single HTTP request.
* Views can be queried with sorting turned off ( ``sorted=false``) for a
  performance boost.
* The update sequences returned by the :ref:`api/db/changes` feed are no longer
  just integers. They can be any JSON value.
* The global changes feed has been enhanced. It is now resumable and persistent.
* New endpoints added (documentation forthcoming for some):

  * :ref:`api/server/membership`
  * ``/_bulk_get``
  * ``/_node/``
  * ``/_cluster_setup``
  * ``/_up``
  * ``/db/_local_docs`` and ``/db/_design_docs`` (similar to ``/db/_all_docs``)

* "Backend" interface on port 5986 used for specific cluster admin tasks. Of
  interest are the ``_nodes`` and ``_dbs`` databases visible only through this
  interface.
* Support added for Erlang/OTP 17.x, 18.x and 19
* New streamlined build system written for Microsoft Windows

.. _release/2.0.x/upgrade:

Upgrade Notes
=============

* Temporary views are no longer supported.
* It is possible to have multiple replicator databases.
  ``replicator/db`` config option has been removed.
  Instead ``_replicator`` and any database names ending
  with the ``/_replicator`` suffix will be recognized as
  replicator databases by the system.
* Note that the semantics of some API calls have changed due to the introduction
  of the clustering feature. Specifically, make note of the difference between
  receiving a ``201`` and a ``202`` when storing a document.
* ``all_or_nothing`` is no longer supported by the :ref:`bulk_docs
  <api/db/bulk_docs>` API

.. _release/2.0.x/knownissues:

Known Issues
============

All `known issues`_ filed against the 2.0 release are contained within the
official `CouchDB JIRA instance`.

The following are some highlights of known issues for which fixes did not land
in time for the 2.0.0 release:

* :issue:`2980`: The replicator (whether invoked via ``_replicate`` or a
  document stored in the ``_replicator`` database) understands two kinds of
  source and target:

  #. A URL (e.g., ``https://foo:bar@foo.com/db1``), called a "remote" source or
     target
  #. A database name (e.g., ``db1``), called a "local" source or target.

  Whenever the latter type is used, this refers to a local unclustered
  database, not a clustered one.

  In a future release we hope to support "local" source or target specs to
  clustered databases. For now, we recommend always using the URL format for
  both source and target specifications.
* :issue:`3034`: CouchDB will occasionally return 500 errors when multiple
  clients attempt to PUT or DELETE the same database concurrently.
* :issue:`3119`: Adding nodes to a cluster fails if the Erlang node name
  is not ``couchdb`` (of the form ``couchdb@hostname``.)
* :issue:`3050`: Occasionally the ``dev/run`` script used for development
  purposes to start a local 3-node cluster will fail to start one or more
  nodes.
* :issue:`2817`: The compaction daemon will only compact views for shards
  that contain the design document.
* :issue:`2804`: The fast_view optimization is not enabled on the clustered
  interface.

.. _known issues: https://s.apache.org/couchdb-2.0-known-issues
.. _CouchDB JIRA instance: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB
