src/whatsnew/3.2.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _release/3.2.x:

============
3.2.x Branch
============

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

.. _release/3.2.0:

Version 3.2.0
=============

Features and Enhancements
-------------------------

* :ghissue:`3472`, :ghissue:`3473`: Migrate some config options from [httpd]
  to [chttpd], migrate some from [couch_httpd_auth] to [chttpd_auth], and
  commented out in the default.ini.

  **Moved config options from [httpd] to [chttpd]:**
  `allow_jsonp`, `changes_timeout`, `config_whitelist`,
  `enable_cors`, `secure_rewrites`, `x_forwarded_host`,
  `x_forwarded_proto`, `x_forwarded_ssl`,
  `enable_xframe_options`, `max_http_request_size`.

  **Moved config options from [couch_httpd_auth] to [chttpd_auth]:**
  `authentication_redirect`, `require_valid_user`, `timeout`, `auth_cache_size`,
  `allow_persistent_cookies`, `iterations`, `min_iterations`, `max_iterations`,
  `password_scheme`, `proxy_use_secret`, `public_fields`, `secret`,
  `users_db_public`, `x_auth_roles`, `x_auth_token`, `x_auth_username`,
  `cookie_domain`, `same_site`

* :ghissue:`3586`: We added a new way of specifying basic auth credentials
  which can include various characters previously not allowed to be included
  in the url info part of endpoint urls.

* Thank you for reading.

Commit message:

Contribute Custom Erlang Network Protocol to CouchDB

src/whatsnew/3.2.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _release/3.2.x:

============
3.2.x Branch
============

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

.. _release/3.2.0:

Version 3.2.0
=============

Features and Enhancements
-------------------------

* :ghissue:`3643`: Contribute a custom Erlang network protocol to CouchDB,
  users can specify nodes to use TCP or TLS.

.. figure:: ../../images/TLS-Handshake.png
  :align: center
  :alt: The SSL/TLS handshake enables the TLS client and server to establish
        the secret keys with which they communicate.

* :ghissue:`3472`, :ghissue:`3473`: Migrate some config options from [httpd]
  to [chttpd], migrate some from [couch_httpd_auth] to [chttpd_auth], and
  commented out in the default.ini.

  **Moved config options from [httpd] to [chttpd]:**
  `allow_jsonp`, `changes_timeout`, `config_whitelist`,
  `enable_cors`, `secure_rewrites`, `x_forwarded_host`,
  `x_forwarded_proto`, `x_forwarded_ssl`,
  `enable_xframe_options`, `max_http_request_size`.

  **Moved config options from [couch_httpd_auth] to [chttpd_auth]:**
  `authentication_redirect`, `require_valid_user`, `timeout`, `auth_cache_size`,
  `allow_persistent_cookies`, `iterations`, `min_iterations`, `max_iterations`,
  `password_scheme`, `proxy_use_secret`, `public_fields`, `secret`,
  `users_db_public`, `x_auth_roles`, `x_auth_token`, `x_auth_username`,
  `cookie_domain`, `same_site`

* :ghissue:`3586`: We added a new way of specifying basic auth credentials
  which can include various characters previously not allowed to be included
  in the url info part of endpoint urls.

* Thank you for reading.
