src/config/auth.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. highlight:: ini


================================
Authentication and Authorization
================================

.. _config/admins:

``[admins]`` :: Server Administrators
=====================================

A default CouchDB install provides admin-level access to all connecting users.
This configuration is known as `Admin Party`, and is not recommended for
in-production usage. You can crash the party simply by creating the first
admin account. CouchDB server administrators and passwords are not stored
in the ``_users`` database, but in the ``local.ini`` file, which should be
appropriately secured and readable only by system administrators::

  [admins]
  ;admin = mysecretpassword
  admin = -hashed-6d3c30241ba0aaa4e16c6ea99224f915687ed8cd,7f4a3e05e0cbc6f48a0035e3508eef90
  architect = -pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000

Administrators can be added directly to the ``[admins]`` section, and when
CouchDB is restarted, the passwords will be salted and encrypted. You may
also use the HTTP interface to create administrator accounts; this way,
you don't need to restart CouchDB, and there's no need to temporarily store
or transmit passwords in plaintext. The HTTP ``_config/admins`` endpoint
supports querying, deleting or creating new admin accounts:

.. code-block:: http

   GET /_config/admins HTTP/1.1
   Accept: application/json
   Host: localhost:5984

.. code-block:: http

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Cache-Control: must-revalidate
   Content-Length: 196
   Content-Type: application/json
   Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2012 11:37:18 GMT
   Server: CouchDB/1.3.0 (Erlang OTP/R15B03)

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "admin": "-hashed-6d3c30241ba0aaa4e16c6ea99224f915687ed8cd,7f4a3e05e0cbc6f48a0035e3508eef90",
     "architect": "-pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000"
   }

If you already have a salted, encrypted password string (for example,
from an old ``local.ini`` file, or from a different CouchDB server), then
you can store the "raw" encrypted string, without having CouchDB doubly
encrypt it.

.. code-block:: http

   PUT /_config/admins/architect?raw=true HTTP/1.1
   Accept: application/json
   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-Length: 89
   Host: localhost:5984

   "-pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000"

.. code-block:: http

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Cache-Control: must-revalidate
   Content-Length: 89
   Content-Type: application/json
   Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2012 11:39:18 GMT
   Server: CouchDB/1.3.0 (Erlang OTP/R15B02)

   "-pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000"

Further details are available in `security`, including configuring the
work factor for ``PBKDF2``, and the algorithm itself at
`PBKDF2 (RFC-2898) <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2898>`_.

.. versionchanged:: 1.3 `PBKDF2` server-side hashed salted password support
   added, now as a synchronous call for the ``_config/admins`` API.



.. _config/couch_httpd_auth:

``[couch_httpd_auth]`` :: Authentication Configuration
======================================================

.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/allow_persistent_cookies:

``allow_persistent_cookies`` :: Persistent cookies
--------------------------------------------------

Makes cookies persistent if ``true``::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  allow_persistent_cookies = false


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/auth_cache_size:

``auth_cache_size`` :: Authentication cache
-------------------------------------------

Number of :ref:`userctx_object` to cache in memory to reduce disk lookups::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  auth_cache_size = 50


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/authentication_db:

``authentication_db`` :: Users database
---------------------------------------

Specifies name of the system database for storing CouchDB users::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  authentication_db = _users

.. warning:: If there was any reasons to change this name for you, don't forget
   to remove/cleanup old database since it wouldn't be protected by CouchDB
   anymore.


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/authentication_redirect:

``authentication_redirect`` :: Default redirect for authentication requests
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Specifies location for redirection on successful authentication if ``text/html``
response accepted by client (via ``Accept`` header)::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  authentication_redirect = /_utils/session.html


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/iterations:

``iterations`` :: PBKDF2 iterations count
-----------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.3

Number of iterations for password hashing by PBKDF2 algorithm. Higher number
provides better hash durability, but with cost of performance on each request
that requires authentication::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  iterations = 10000


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/proxy_use_secret:

``proxy_use_secret`` :: Force proxy auth use secret token
---------------------------------------------------------

When this option ``true`` the :ref:`secret <config/couch_httpd_auth/secret>` is
required for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  proxy_use_secret = false


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/require_valid_user:

``require_valid_user`` :: Force users authentication
----------------------------------------------------

When this option ``true`` no requests allowed from anonymous users - everyone
should be authenticated::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  require_valid_user = false


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/secret:

``secret`` :: Proxy Auth secret token
-------------------------------------

The secret token used for `Proxy Auth` authentication method::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  secret = 92de07df7e7a3fe14808cef90a7cc0d91


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/timeout:

``timeout`` :: Session timeout
------------------------------

Number of seconds since the last request before session will be expired::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  timeout = 600


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_roles:

``x_auth_roles`` :: Proxy Auth roles header
-------------------------------------------

HTTP header name (``X-Auth-CouchDB-Roles`` by default) that contains the list of
user's roles separated by a comma. Used for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  x_auth_roles = X-Auth-CouchDB-Roles


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_token:

``x_auth_token`` :: Proxy Auth token header
-------------------------------------------

HTTP header name (``X-Auth-CouchDB-Token`` by default) with token to
authenticate the authorization. This token is an `HMAC-SHA1` created from
:ref:`secret key <config/couch_httpd_auth/secret>` and
:ref:`username <config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_username>`. The secret key
should be the same in the client and CouchDB node. This token is optional
if value of :ref:`proxy_use_secret <config/couch_httpd_auth/proxy_use_secret>`
option isn't ``true``. Used for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  x_auth_roles = X-Auth-CouchDB-Token


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_username:

``x_auth_username`` :: Proxy Auth username header
-------------------------------------------------

HTTP header name (``X-Auth-CouchDB-UserName`` by default) containing the
username. Used for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  x_auth_username = X-Auth-CouchDB-UserName



.. _config/oauth:

``[oauth]`` :: OAuth Configuration
==================================

.. _config/oauth/oauth_consumer_secrets:
.. _config/oauth/oauth_token_secrets:
.. _config/oauth/oauth_token_users:

Store credentials within config
-------------------------------

To let users be authenticated by `OAuth` (:rfc:`5849`) method there is need to
setup three special sections in :ref:`configuration <config>` file:

1. Consumer secret:

::

  [oauth_consumer_secrets]
  consumer1 = sekr1t

2. Token secrets:

::

  [oauth_token_secrets]
  token1 = tokensekr1t

3. Tokens to users mapping:

::

  [oauth_token_users]
  token1 = couchdb_username


.. _config/couch_httpd_oauth:
.. _config/couch_httpd_oauth/use_users_db:

Store OAuth credentials within auth database
--------------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.2: CouchDB is able to store OAuth credentials within users
   documents instead of config file.

::

  [couch_httpd_oauth]
  use_users_db = true

If set to ``true``, OAuth token and consumer secrets will be looked up
in the authentication database (``_user``). These secrets are stored in
a top level field named ``"oauth"`` in user documents. Example:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "_id": "org.couchdb.user:joe",
        "type": "user",
        "name": "joe",
        "password_sha": "fe95df1ca59a9b567bdca5cbaf8412abd6e06121",
        "salt": "4e170ffeb6f34daecfd814dfb4001a73"
        "roles": ["foo", "bar"],
        "oauth": {
            "consumer_keys": {
                "consumerKey1": "key1Secret",
                "consumerKey2": "key2Secret"
            },
            "tokens": {
                "token1": "token1Secret",
                "token2": "token2Secret"
           }
        }
    }

Commit message:

Describe public_fields option.
With big red warning.

src/config/auth.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. highlight:: ini


================================
Authentication and Authorization
================================

.. _config/admins:

``[admins]`` :: Server Administrators
=====================================

A default CouchDB install provides admin-level access to all connecting users.
This configuration is known as `Admin Party`, and is not recommended for
in-production usage. You can crash the party simply by creating the first
admin account. CouchDB server administrators and passwords are not stored
in the ``_users`` database, but in the ``local.ini`` file, which should be
appropriately secured and readable only by system administrators::

  [admins]
  ;admin = mysecretpassword
  admin = -hashed-6d3c30241ba0aaa4e16c6ea99224f915687ed8cd,7f4a3e05e0cbc6f48a0035e3508eef90
  architect = -pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000

Administrators can be added directly to the ``[admins]`` section, and when
CouchDB is restarted, the passwords will be salted and encrypted. You may
also use the HTTP interface to create administrator accounts; this way,
you don't need to restart CouchDB, and there's no need to temporarily store
or transmit passwords in plaintext. The HTTP ``_config/admins`` endpoint
supports querying, deleting or creating new admin accounts:

.. code-block:: http

   GET /_config/admins HTTP/1.1
   Accept: application/json
   Host: localhost:5984

.. code-block:: http

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Cache-Control: must-revalidate
   Content-Length: 196
   Content-Type: application/json
   Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2012 11:37:18 GMT
   Server: CouchDB/1.3.0 (Erlang OTP/R15B03)

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "admin": "-hashed-6d3c30241ba0aaa4e16c6ea99224f915687ed8cd,7f4a3e05e0cbc6f48a0035e3508eef90",
     "architect": "-pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000"
   }

If you already have a salted, encrypted password string (for example,
from an old ``local.ini`` file, or from a different CouchDB server), then
you can store the "raw" encrypted string, without having CouchDB doubly
encrypt it.

.. code-block:: http

   PUT /_config/admins/architect?raw=true HTTP/1.1
   Accept: application/json
   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-Length: 89
   Host: localhost:5984

   "-pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000"

.. code-block:: http

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Cache-Control: must-revalidate
   Content-Length: 89
   Content-Type: application/json
   Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2012 11:39:18 GMT
   Server: CouchDB/1.3.0 (Erlang OTP/R15B02)

   "-pbkdf2-43ecbd256a70a3a2f7de40d2374b6c3002918834,921a12f74df0c1052b3e562a23cd227f,10000"

Further details are available in `security`, including configuring the
work factor for ``PBKDF2``, and the algorithm itself at
`PBKDF2 (RFC-2898) <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2898>`_.

.. versionchanged:: 1.3 `PBKDF2` server-side hashed salted password support
   added, now as a synchronous call for the ``_config/admins`` API.



.. _config/couch_httpd_auth:

``[couch_httpd_auth]`` :: Authentication Configuration
======================================================

.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/allow_persistent_cookies:

``allow_persistent_cookies`` :: Persistent cookies
--------------------------------------------------

Makes cookies persistent if ``true``::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  allow_persistent_cookies = false


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/auth_cache_size:

``auth_cache_size`` :: Authentication cache
-------------------------------------------

Number of :ref:`userctx_object` to cache in memory to reduce disk lookups::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  auth_cache_size = 50


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/authentication_db:

``authentication_db`` :: Users database
---------------------------------------

Specifies name of the system database for storing CouchDB users::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  authentication_db = _users

.. warning:: If there was any reasons to change this name for you, don't forget
   to remove/cleanup old database since it wouldn't be protected by CouchDB
   anymore.


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/authentication_redirect:

``authentication_redirect`` :: Default redirect for authentication requests
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Specifies location for redirection on successful authentication if ``text/html``
response accepted by client (via ``Accept`` header)::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  authentication_redirect = /_utils/session.html


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/iterations:

``iterations`` :: PBKDF2 iterations count
-----------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.3

Number of iterations for password hashing by PBKDF2 algorithm. Higher number
provides better hash durability, but with cost of performance on each request
that requires authentication::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  iterations = 10000


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/proxy_use_secret:

``proxy_use_secret`` :: Force proxy auth use secret token
---------------------------------------------------------

When this option ``true`` the :ref:`secret <config/couch_httpd_auth/secret>` is
required for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  proxy_use_secret = false


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/public_fields:

``public_fields`` :: User documents public fields
-------------------------------------------------

.. warning::

   Due to :issue:`1838` issue, setting `public fields` allows list all documents
   in the :ref:`_users <config/couch_httpd_auth/authentication_db>` database,
   no matter does their documents contains public fields or not. If your system
   uses email-based user login, enabling this feature may be fatal from security
   point.

Comma-separated list of field names that will be available to view for any user
document in :ref:`authentication_db <config/couch_httpd_auth/authentication_db>`
If unset or not specified, authenticated users may retrieve only their own docs.

::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  public_fields = first_name, last_name, contacts, url


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/require_valid_user:

``require_valid_user`` :: Force users authentication
----------------------------------------------------

When this option ``true`` no requests allowed from anonymous users - everyone
should be authenticated::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  require_valid_user = false


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/secret:

``secret`` :: Proxy Auth secret token
-------------------------------------

The secret token used for `Proxy Auth` authentication method::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  secret = 92de07df7e7a3fe14808cef90a7cc0d91


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/timeout:

``timeout`` :: Session timeout
------------------------------

Number of seconds since the last request before session will be expired::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  timeout = 600


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_roles:

``x_auth_roles`` :: Proxy Auth roles header
-------------------------------------------

HTTP header name (``X-Auth-CouchDB-Roles`` by default) that contains the list of
user's roles separated by a comma. Used for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  x_auth_roles = X-Auth-CouchDB-Roles


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_token:

``x_auth_token`` :: Proxy Auth token header
-------------------------------------------

HTTP header name (``X-Auth-CouchDB-Token`` by default) with token to
authenticate the authorization. This token is an `HMAC-SHA1` created from
:ref:`secret key <config/couch_httpd_auth/secret>` and
:ref:`username <config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_username>`. The secret key
should be the same in the client and CouchDB node. This token is optional
if value of :ref:`proxy_use_secret <config/couch_httpd_auth/proxy_use_secret>`
option isn't ``true``. Used for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  x_auth_roles = X-Auth-CouchDB-Token


.. _config/couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_username:

``x_auth_username`` :: Proxy Auth username header
-------------------------------------------------

HTTP header name (``X-Auth-CouchDB-UserName`` by default) containing the
username. Used for `Proxy Auth`::

  [couch_httpd_auth]
  x_auth_username = X-Auth-CouchDB-UserName



.. _config/oauth:

``[oauth]`` :: OAuth Configuration
==================================

.. _config/oauth/oauth_consumer_secrets:
.. _config/oauth/oauth_token_secrets:
.. _config/oauth/oauth_token_users:

Store credentials within config
-------------------------------

To let users be authenticated by `OAuth` (:rfc:`5849`) method there is need to
setup three special sections in :ref:`configuration <config>` file:

1. Consumer secret:

::

  [oauth_consumer_secrets]
  consumer1 = sekr1t

2. Token secrets:

::

  [oauth_token_secrets]
  token1 = tokensekr1t

3. Tokens to users mapping:

::

  [oauth_token_users]
  token1 = couchdb_username


.. _config/couch_httpd_oauth:
.. _config/couch_httpd_oauth/use_users_db:

Store OAuth credentials within auth database
--------------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.2: CouchDB is able to store OAuth credentials within users
   documents instead of config file.

::

  [couch_httpd_oauth]
  use_users_db = true

If set to ``true``, OAuth token and consumer secrets will be looked up
in the authentication database (``_user``). These secrets are stored in
a top level field named ``"oauth"`` in user documents. Example:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "_id": "org.couchdb.user:joe",
        "type": "user",
        "name": "joe",
        "password_sha": "fe95df1ca59a9b567bdca5cbaf8412abd6e06121",
        "salt": "4e170ffeb6f34daecfd814dfb4001a73"
        "roles": ["foo", "bar"],
        "oauth": {
            "consumer_keys": {
                "consumerKey1": "key1Secret",
                "consumerKey2": "key2Secret"
            },
            "tokens": {
                "token1": "token1Secret",
                "token2": "token2Secret"
           }
        }
    }
