src/config/couch-peruser.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config
.. highlight:: ini

=============
couch_peruser
=============

.. _config/couch_peruser:

couch_peruser Options
=====================

.. config:section:: couch_peruser :: couch_peruser Options

    .. config:option:: enable

    If set to ``true``, couch_peruser ensures that a private per-user
    database exists for each document in ``_users``. These databases are
    writable only by the corresponding user. Databases are in the following
    form: ``userdb-{hex encoded username}``. ::

        [couch_peruser]
        enable = false

    .. config:option:: delete_dbs

    If set to ``true`` and a user is deleted, the respective database gets
    deleted as well. ::

        [couch_peruser]
        delete_dbs = false

Commit message:

Include note about enabling couch_peruser. (#395)

src/config/couch-peruser.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config
.. highlight:: ini

=============
couch_peruser
=============

.. _config/couch_peruser:

couch_peruser Options
=====================

.. config:section:: couch_peruser :: couch_peruser Options

    .. config:option:: enable

    If set to ``true``, couch_peruser ensures that a private per-user
    database exists for each document in ``_users``. These databases are
    writable only by the corresponding user. Databases are in the following
    form: ``userdb-{hex encoded username}``. ::

        [couch_peruser]
        enable = false

    .. note::
        The ``_users`` database must exist before couch_peruser can be enabled.

    .. config:option:: delete_dbs

    If set to ``true`` and a user is deleted, the respective database gets
    deleted as well. ::

        [couch_peruser]
        delete_dbs = false
