src/config/externals.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config
.. highlight:: ini

==================
External Processes
==================

.. _config/os_daemons:

OS Daemons
==========

.. config:section:: os_daemons :: OS Daemons

    This is a simple feature that allows users to configure CouchDB so that it
    maintains a given OS level process alive. If the process dies for any
    reason, CouchDB will restart it. If the process restarts too often, then
    CouchDB will mark it has halted and not attempt to restart it. The default
    max restart rate is ``3`` times in the last ``5`` seconds. These parameters
    are :section:`adjustable <os_daemon_settings>`.

    Commands that are started in this manner will have access to a simple API
    over stdio to request configuration parameters or to add log statements to
    CouchDB's logs.

    To configure an OS process as a CouchDB os_daemon, create a section in your
    `local.ini` like such::

        [os_daemons]
        daemon_name = /path/to/command -with args

    This will make CouchDB bring up the command and attempt to keep it alive.
    To request a configuration parameter, an `os_daemon` can write a simple
    JSON message to stdout like such::

        ["get", "os_daemons"]\n

    which would return::

        {"daemon_name": "/path/to/command -with args"}\n

    Or::

        ["get", "os_daemons", "daemon_name"]\n

    which would return::

        "/path/to/command -with args"\n

    There's no restriction on what configuration variables are visible. There's
    also no method for altering the configuration.

    If you would like your OS daemon to be restarted in the event that the
    configuration changes, you can send the following messages::

        ["register", $(SECTION)]\n

    When anything in that section changes, your OS process will be rebooted so
    it can pick up the new configuration settings. If you want to listen for
    changes on a specific key, you can send something like::

        ["register", $(SECTION), $(KEY)]\n

    In this case, CouchDB will only restart your daemon if that exact
    section/key pair changes, instead of anything in that entire section.

    Logging commands look like::

        ["log", $(JSON_MESSAGE)]\n

    Where ``$(JSON_MESSAGE)`` is arbitrary JSON data. These messages are logged
    at the 'info' level. If you want to log at a different level you can pass
    messages like such::

        ["log", $(JSON_MESSAGE), {"level": $(LEVEL)}]\n

    Where ``$(LEVEL)`` is one of "debug", "info", or "error".

    When implementing a daemon process to be managed by CouchDB you should
    remember to use a method like checking the parent process id or if stdin
    has been closed. These flags can tell you if your daemon process has been
    orphaned so you can exit cleanly.

    There is no interactivity between CouchDB and the running process, but you
    can use the OS Daemons service to create new HTTP servers and responders
    and then use the new proxy service to redirect requests and output to the
    CouchDB managed service. For more information on proxying, see
    :ref:`http-proxying`. For further background on the OS Daemon service,
    see :ref:`externals`.

.. _config/os_daemon_settings:

OS Daemons settings
===================

.. config:section:: os_daemon_settings :: OS Daemons settings

    .. config:option:: max_retries :: Maximum restart retries

        Specifies maximum attempts to run :section:`os_daemons` before mark
        them halted::

            [os_daemon_settings]
            max_retries = 3

    .. config:option:: retry_time :: Delay between restart attempts

        Delay in seconds between :section:`os_daemons` restarts::

            [os_daemon_settings]
            retry_time = 5

.. _update-notifications:
.. _config/update_notification:

Update notifications
====================

.. config:section:: update_notification :: Update notifications

    CouchDB is able to spawn OS processes to notify them about recent databases
    updates. The notifications are in form of JSON messages sent as a line of
    text, terminated by ``CR`` (``\n``) character, to the OS processes through
    `stdout`::

        [update_notification]
        ;unique notifier name=/full/path/to/exe -with "cmd line arg"
        index_updater = ruby /usr/local/bin/index_updater.rb

    The update notification messages are depend upon of event type:

    - **Database created**:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"created","db":"dbname"}

    - **Database updated**:  this event raises when any document gets updated
      for specified database:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"updated","db":"dbname"}

    - **Design document updated**: for design document updates there is special
      event raised in additional to regular db update one:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"ddoc_updated","db":"dbname","id":"_design/ddoc_name"}

    - **Database deleted**:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"deleted","db":"dbname"}

    .. note::
        New line (``\n``) trailing character was removed from examples.

Commit message:

Fix Pygments warnings thrown by Sphinx
Since Sphinx 1.3.5, they show warnings if Pygments
throws an ErrorToken -- in other words, if the type
specified by a code-block (e.g. json) does not
match the content of that block, a warning is
shown, and our build ends with an error, as we
treat all warnings as errors.

About 90% of our warnings were about trying to
parse json when we have a command-line block.
Most of these have been replaced with

 .. code-block:: none

which turns off highlighting for that block. There
are likely a few cases where "bash" might be
more semantically correct, but I think those can
be updated as we get to them.

src/config/externals.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config
.. highlight:: ini

==================
External Processes
==================

.. _config/os_daemons:

OS Daemons
==========

.. config:section:: os_daemons :: OS Daemons

    This is a simple feature that allows users to configure CouchDB so that it
    maintains a given OS level process alive. If the process dies for any
    reason, CouchDB will restart it. If the process restarts too often, then
    CouchDB will mark it has halted and not attempt to restart it. The default
    max restart rate is ``3`` times in the last ``5`` seconds. These parameters
    are :section:`adjustable <os_daemon_settings>`.

    Commands that are started in this manner will have access to a simple API
    over stdio to request configuration parameters or to add log statements to
    CouchDB's logs.

    To configure an OS process as a CouchDB os_daemon, create a section in your
    `local.ini` like such::

        [os_daemons]
        daemon_name = /path/to/command -with args

    This will make CouchDB bring up the command and attempt to keep it alive.
    To request a configuration parameter, an `os_daemon` can write a simple
    JSON message to stdout like such:

    .. code-block:: none

        ["get", "os_daemons"]\n

    which would return:

    .. code-block:: none

        {"daemon_name": "/path/to/command -with args"}\n

    Or:

    .. code-block:: none

        ["get", "os_daemons", "daemon_name"]\n

    which would return:

    .. code-block:: none

        "/path/to/command -with args"\n

    There's no restriction on what configuration variables are visible. There's
    also no method for altering the configuration.

    If you would like your OS daemon to be restarted in the event that the
    configuration changes, you can send the following messages:

    .. code-block:: none

        ["register", $(SECTION)]\n

    When anything in that section changes, your OS process will be rebooted so
    it can pick up the new configuration settings. If you want to listen for
    changes on a specific key, you can send something like:

    .. code-block:: none

        ["register", $(SECTION), $(KEY)]\n

    In this case, CouchDB will only restart your daemon if that exact
    section/key pair changes, instead of anything in that entire section.

    Logging commands look like:

    .. code-block:: none

        ["log", $(JSON_MESSAGE)]\n

    Where ``$(JSON_MESSAGE)`` is arbitrary JSON data. These messages are logged
    at the 'info' level. If you want to log at a different level you can pass
    messages like such:

    .. code-block:: none

        ["log", $(JSON_MESSAGE), {"level": $(LEVEL)}]\n

    Where ``$(LEVEL)`` is one of "debug", "info", or "error".

    When implementing a daemon process to be managed by CouchDB you should
    remember to use a method like checking the parent process id or if stdin
    has been closed. These flags can tell you if your daemon process has been
    orphaned so you can exit cleanly.

    There is no interactivity between CouchDB and the running process, but you
    can use the OS Daemons service to create new HTTP servers and responders
    and then use the new proxy service to redirect requests and output to the
    CouchDB managed service. For more information on proxying, see
    :ref:`http-proxying`. For further background on the OS Daemon service,
    see :ref:`externals`.

.. _config/os_daemon_settings:

OS Daemons settings
===================

.. config:section:: os_daemon_settings :: OS Daemons settings

    .. config:option:: max_retries :: Maximum restart retries

        Specifies maximum attempts to run :section:`os_daemons` before mark
        them halted::

            [os_daemon_settings]
            max_retries = 3

    .. config:option:: retry_time :: Delay between restart attempts

        Delay in seconds between :section:`os_daemons` restarts::

            [os_daemon_settings]
            retry_time = 5

.. _update-notifications:
.. _config/update_notification:

Update notifications
====================

.. config:section:: update_notification :: Update notifications

    CouchDB is able to spawn OS processes to notify them about recent databases
    updates. The notifications are in form of JSON messages sent as a line of
    text, terminated by ``CR`` (``\n``) character, to the OS processes through
    `stdout`::

        [update_notification]
        ;unique notifier name=/full/path/to/exe -with "cmd line arg"
        index_updater = ruby /usr/local/bin/index_updater.rb

    The update notification messages are depend upon of event type:

    - **Database created**:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"created","db":"dbname"}

    - **Database updated**:  this event raises when any document gets updated
      for specified database:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"updated","db":"dbname"}

    - **Design document updated**: for design document updates there is special
      event raised in additional to regular db update one:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"ddoc_updated","db":"dbname","id":"_design/ddoc_name"}

    - **Database deleted**:

      .. code-block:: javascript

          {"type":"deleted","db":"dbname"}

    .. note::
        New line (``\n``) trailing character was removed from examples.
