src/config/http.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config

.. highlight:: ini

===================
CouchDB HTTP Server
===================

.. _config/httpd:

HTTP Server Options
===================

.. config:section:: httpd :: HTTP Server Options

  .. config:option:: allow_jsonp :: Enables JSONP support

    The ``true`` value of this option enables `JSONP`_ support (it's ``false`` by
    default)::

      [httpd]
      allow_jsonp = false

    .. _JSONP: http://www.json-p.org/


  .. config:option:: authentication_handlers :: Authentication handlers

    List of used authentication handlers that used by CouchDB. You may extend
    them via third-party plugins or remove some of them if you won't let users
    to use one of provided methods::

      [httpd]
      authentication_handlers = {couch_httpd_oauth, oauth_authentication_handler}, {couch_httpd_auth, cookie_authentication_handler}, {couch_httpd_auth, default_authentication_handler}

    - ``{couch_httpd_oauth, oauth_authentication_handler}``: handles OAuth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, cookie_authentication_handler}``: used for Cookie auth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, proxy_authentication_handler}``: used for Proxy auth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, default_authentication_handler}``: used for Basic auth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, null_authentication_handler}``: disables auth.
      Everlasting `Admin Party`!


  .. config:option:: bind_address :: Listen IP address

    Defines the IP address by which CouchDB will be accessible::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = 127.0.0.1

    To let CouchDB listen any available IP address, just setup ``0.0.0.0``
    value::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = 0.0.0.0

    For IPv6 support you need to set ``::1`` if you want to let CouchDB listen
    local address::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = ::1

    or ``::`` for any available::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = ::


  .. config:option:: changes_timeout :: Changes feed timeout

    Specifies default `timeout` value for :ref:`Changes Feed <changes>` in
    milliseconds (60000 by default)::

      [httpd]
      changes_feed = 60000 ; 60 seconds


  .. config:option:: config_whitelist :: Config options while list

    Sets the configuration modification whitelist. Only whitelisted values
    may be changed via the :ref:`config API <api/config>`. To allow the admin
    to change this value over HTTP, remember to include
    ``{httpd,config_whitelist}`` itself. Excluding it from the list would
    require editing this file to update the whitelist::

      [httpd]
      config_whitelist = [{httpd,config_whitelist}, {log,level}, {etc,etc}]


  .. config:option:: default_handler :: Default request handler

    Specifies default HTTP requests handler::

      [httpd]
      default_handler = {couch_httpd_db, handle_request}


  .. config:option:: enable_cors :: Activates CORS

    .. versionadded:: 1.3

    Controls :ref:`CORS <config/cors>` feature::

      [httpd]
      enable_cors = false


  .. config:option:: log_max_chunk_size :: Logs chunk size

    Defines maximum chunk size in bytes for :ref:`_log <api/server/log>`
    resource::

      [httpd]
      log_max_chunk_size = 1000000


  .. config:option:: port :: Listen port

    Defined the port number to listen::

      [httpd]
      port = 5984

    To let CouchDB handle any free port, set this option to ``0``::

      [httpd]
      port = 0

    After that, CouchDB URI could be located within the URI file.


  .. config:option:: redirect_vhost_handler :: Virtual Hosts custom redirect handler

    This option customizes the default function that handles requests to
    :section:`virtual hosts <vhosts>`::

      [httpd]
      redirect_vhost_handler = {Module, Fun}

    The specified function take 2 arguments: the Mochiweb request object and the
    target path.


  .. config:option:: server_options :: MochiWeb Server Options

    Server options for the `MochiWeb`_ component of CouchDB can be added to the
    configuration files::

      [httpd]
      server_options = [{backlog, 128}, {acceptor_pool_size, 16}]

    .. _MochiWeb: https://github.com/mochi/mochiweb


  .. config:option:: secure_rewrites :: Default request handler

    This option allow to isolate databases via subdomains::

      [httpd]
      secure_rewrites = true


  .. config:option:: socket_options :: Socket Options

    The socket options for the listening socket in CouchDB can be specified as
    a list of tuples. For example::

      [httpd]
      socket_options = [{recbuf, 262144}, {sndbuf, 262144}, {nodelay, true}]

    The options supported are a subset of full options supported by the
    TCP/IP stack. A list of the supported options are provided in the
    `Erlang inet`_ documentation.

    .. _Erlang inet: http://www.erlang.org/doc/man/inet.html#setopts-2


  .. config:option:: vhost_global_handlers :: Virtual hosts global handlers

    List of global handlers that are available for :section:`virtual hosts
    <vhosts>`::

      [httpd]
      vhost_global_handlers = _utils, _uuids, _session, _oauth, _users


  .. config:option:: x_forwarded_host :: X-Forwarder-Host

    The `x_forwarded_host` header (``X-Forwarded-Host`` by default) is used to
    forward the original value of the ``Host`` header field in case, for
    example, if a reverse proxy is rewriting the "Host" header field to some
    internal host name before forward the request to CouchDB::

      [httpd]
      x_forwarded_host = X-Forwarded-Host

    This header has higher priority above ``Host`` one, if only it exists in
    the request.


  .. config:option:: x_forwarded_proto :: X-Forwarder-Proto

    `x_forwarded_proto` header (``X-Forwarder-Proto`` by default) is used for
    identifying the originating protocol of an HTTP request, since a reverse
    proxy may communicate with CouchDB instance using HTTP even if the request
    to the reverse proxy is HTTPS::

      [httpd]
      x_forwarded_proto = X-Forwarded-Proto


  .. config:option:: x_forwarded_ssl :: X-Forwarder-Ssl

    The `x_forwarded_ssl` header (``X-Forwarded-Ssl`` by default) tells CouchDB
    that it should use the `https` scheme instead of the `http`. Actually, it's
    a synonym for ``X-Forwarded-Proto: https`` header, but used by some reverse
    proxies::

      [httpd]
      x_forwarded_ssl = X-Forwarded-Ssl


  .. config:option:: WWW-Authenticate :: Force basic auth

    Set this option to trigger basic-auth popup on unauthorized requests::

      [httpd]
      WWW-Authenticate = Basic realm="Welcome to the Couch!"


.. _config/ssl:

Secure Socket Level Options
===========================

.. config:section:: ssl :: Secure Socket Level Options

  CouchDB supports SSL natively. All your secure connection needs can
  now be served without needing to setup and maintain a separate proxy server
  that handles SSL.

  SSL setup can be tricky, but the configuration in CouchDB was designed
  to be as easy as possible. All you need is two files; a certificate and
  a private key. If you bought an official SSL certificate from a
  certificate authority, both should be in your possession already.

  If you just want to try this out and don't want to pay anything upfront,
  you can create a self-signed certificate. Everything will work the same,
  but clients will get a warning about an insecure certificate.

  You will need the `OpenSSL`_ command line tool installed. It probably
  already is.

  .. code-block:: bash

    shell> mkdir /etc/couchdb/cert
    shell> cd /etc/couchdb/cert
    shell> openssl genrsa > privkey.pem
    shell> openssl req -new -x509 -key privkey.pem -out couchdb.pem -days 1095
    shell> chmod 600 privkey.pem couchdb.pem
    shell> chown couchdb privkey.pem couchdb.pem

  Now, you need to edit CouchDB's configuration, either by editing your
  ``local.ini`` file or using the ``/_config`` API calls or the
  configuration screen in Futon. Here is what you need to do in
  ``local.ini``, you can infer what needs doing in the other places.

  At first, :option:`enable the HTTPS daemon <daemons/httpsd>`::

    [daemons]
    httpsd = {couch_httpd, start_link, [https]}

  Next, under ``[ssl]`` section setup newly generated certificates::

    [ssl]
    cert_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/couchdb.pem
    key_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/privkey.pem

  For more information please read `certificates HOWTO`_.

  Now start (or restart) CouchDB. You should be able to connect to it
  using HTTPS on port 6984:

  .. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl https://127.0.0.1:6984/
    curl: (60) SSL certificate problem, verify that the CA cert is OK. Details:
    error:14090086:SSL routines:SSL3_GET_SERVER_CERTIFICATE:certificate verify failed
    More details here: http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html

    curl performs SSL certificate verification by default, using a "bundle"
    of Certificate Authority (CA) public keys (CA certs). If the default
    bundle file isn't adequate, you can specify an alternate file
    using the --cacert option.
    If this HTTPS server uses a certificate signed by a CA represented in
    the bundle, the certificate verification probably failed due to a
    problem with the certificate (it might be expired, or the name might
    not match the domain name in the URL).
    If you'd like to turn off curl's verification of the certificate, use
    the -k (or --insecure) option.

  Oh no! What happened?! Remember, clients will notify their users that
  your certificate is self signed. ``curl`` is the client in this case and
  it notifies you. Luckily you trust yourself (don't you?) and you can
  specify the ``-k`` option as the message reads:

  .. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl -k https://127.0.0.1:6984/
    {"couchdb":"Welcome","version":"1.5.0"}

  All done.

  .. _`certificates HOWTO`: http://www.openssl.org/docs/HOWTO/certificates.txt
  .. _OpenSSL: http://www.openssl.org/


  .. config:option:: cacert_file :: CA Certificate file

    Path to file containing PEM encoded CA certificates (trusted certificates
    used for verifying a peer certificate). May be omitted if you do not want
    to verify the peer::

      [ssl]
      cacert_file = /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt


  .. config:option:: cert_file :: Certificate file

    Path to a file containing the user's certificate::

      [ssl]
      cert_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/couchdb.pem


  .. config:option:: key_file :: Certificate key file

    Path to file containing user's private PEM encoded key::

      [ssl]
      key_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/privkey.pem


  .. config:option:: password :: Certificate key password

    String containing the user's password. Only used if the private keyfile is
    password protected::

      [ssl]
      password = somepassword


  .. config:option:: ssl_certificate_max_depth :: Maximum peer certificate depth

    Maximum peer certificate depth (must be set even if certificate validation
    is off)::

      [ssl]
      ssl_certificate_max_depth = 1


  .. config:option:: verify_fun :: SSL verification function

    The verification fun (optional) if not specified, the default
    verification fun will be used::

      [ssl]
      verify_fun = {Module, VerifyFun}


  .. config:option:: verify_ssl_certificates :: Enable certificate verification

    Set to `true` to validate peer certificates::

      [ssl]
      verify_ssl_certificates = false


.. _cors:
.. _config/cors:

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
=============================

.. config:section:: cors :: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing

  .. versionadded:: 1.3 added CORS support, see JIRA :issue:`431`

  `CORS`, or "Cross-Origin Resource Sharing", allows a resource such as a web
  page running JavaScript inside a browser, to make AJAX requests
  (XMLHttpRequests) to a different domain, without compromising the security
  of either party.

  A typical use case is to have a static website hosted on a CDN make
  requests to another resource, such as a hosted CouchDB instance. This
  avoids needing an intermediary proxy, using `JSONP` or similar workarounds
  to retrieve and host content.

  While CouchDB's integrated HTTP server has support for document attachments
  makes this less of a constraint for pure CouchDB projects, there are many
  cases where separating the static content from the database access is
  desirable, and CORS makes this very straightforward.

  By supporting CORS functionality, a CouchDB instance can accept direct
  connections to protected databases and instances, without the browser
  functionality being blocked due to same-origin constraints. CORS is
  supported today on over 90% of recent browsers.

  CORS support is provided as experimental functionality in 1.3, and as such
  will need to be enabled specifically in CouchDB's configuration. While all
  origins are forbidden from making requests by default, support is available
  for simple requests, preflight requests and per-vhost configuration.

  This section requires :option:`httpd/enable_cors` option have
  ``true`` value::

    [httpd]
    enable_cors = true


  .. config:option:: credentials

    By default, neither authentication headers nor cookies are included in
    requests and responses. To do so requires both setting
    ``XmlHttpRequest.withCredentials = true`` on the request object in the
    browser and enabling credentials support in CouchDB.

    ::

      [cors]
      credentials = true

    CouchDB will respond to a credentials-enabled CORS request with an
    additional header, ``Access-Control-Allow-Credentials=true``.


  .. config:option:: origins

    List of origins separated by a comma, ``*`` means accept all.
    You can’t set ``origins = *`` and ``credentials = true`` option at the same
    time::

      [cors]
      origins = *

    Access can be restricted by protocol, host and optionally by port. Origins
    must follow the scheme: http://example.com:80::

      [cors]
      origins = http://localhost, https://localhost, http://couch.mydev.name:8080

    Note that by default, no origins are accepted. You must define them
    explicitly.


  .. config:option:: headers

    List of accepted headers separated by a comma::

      [cors]
      headers = X-Couch-Id, X-Couch-Rev


  .. config:option:: methods

    List of accepted methods::

      [cors]
      methods = GET,POST

  .. seealso::

     Original JIRA `implementation ticket <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB-431>`_

     Standards and References:

     - IETF RFCs relating to methods: :rfc:`2618`, :rfc:`2817`, :rfc:`5789`
     - IETF RFC for Web Origins: :rfc:`6454`
     - W3C `CORS standard <http://www.w3.org/TR/cors>`_

     Mozilla Developer Network Resources:

     - `Same origin policy for URIs <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Same-origin_policy_for_file:_URIs>`_
     - `HTTP Access Control <https://developer.mozilla.org/En/HTTP_access_control>`_
     - `Server-side Access Control <https://developer.mozilla.org/En/Server-Side_Access_Control>`_
     - `Javascript same origin policy <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Same_origin_policy_for_JavaScript>`_

     Client-side CORS support and usage:

     - `CORS browser support matrix <http://caniuse.com/cors>`_
     - `COS tutorial <http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/cors/>`_
     - `XHR with CORS <http://hacks.mozilla.org/2009/07/cross-site-xmlhttprequest-with-cors/>`_


Per Virtual Host Configuration
------------------------------

To set the options for a :section:`vhosts`, you will need to create a section
with the vhost name prefixed by ``cors:``. Example case for the vhost
`example.com`::

  [cors:example.com]
  credentials = false
  ; List of origins separated by a comma
  origins = *
  ; List of accepted headers separated by a comma
  headers = X-CouchDB-Header
  ; List of accepted methods
  methods = HEAD, GET



.. _config/vhosts:

Virtual Hosts
=============

.. config:section:: vhosts :: Virtual Hosts

  CouchDB can map requests to different locations based on the ``Host`` header,
  even if they arrive on the same inbound IP address.

  This allows different virtual hosts on the same machine to map to different
  databases or design documents, etc. The most common use case is to map a
  virtual host to a :ref:`Rewrite Handler <api/ddoc/rewrite>`, to provide full
  control over the application's URIs.

  To add a virtual host, add a `CNAME` pointer to the DNS for your domain
  name. For development and testing, it is sufficient to add an entry in
  the hosts file, typically `/etc/hosts`` on Unix-like operating systems:

  .. code-block:: text

     # CouchDB vhost definitions, refer to local.ini for further details
     127.0.0.1       couchdb.local

  Test that this is working:

  .. code-block:: bash

     $ ping -n 2 couchdb.local
     PING couchdb.local (127.0.0.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
     64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_req=1 ttl=64 time=0.025 ms
     64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_req=2 ttl=64 time=0.051 ms

  Finally, add an entry to your :ref:`configuration file <config>` in the
  ``[vhosts]`` section::

    [vhosts]
    couchdb.local:5984 = /example
    *.couchdb.local:5984 = /example

  If your CouchDB is listening on the the default HTTP port (80), or is sitting
  behind a proxy, then you don't need to specify a port number in the `vhost`
  key.

  The first line will rewrite the request to display the content of the
  `example` database. This rule works only if the ``Host`` header is
  ``couchdb.local`` and won't work for `CNAMEs`. The second rule, on the other
  hand, matches all `CNAMEs` to `example` db, so that both `www.couchdb.local`
  and `db.couchdb.local` will work.


Rewriting Hosts to a Path
-------------------------

Like in the :ref:`_rewrite <api/ddoc/rewrite>` handler you can match some
variable and use them to create the target path. Some examples::

  [vhosts]
  *.couchdb.local = /*
  :dbname. = /:dbname
  :ddocname.:dbname.example.com = /:dbname/_design/:ddocname/_rewrite


The first rule passes the wildcard as `dbname`. The second one does the same,
but uses a variable name. And the third one allows you to use any URL with
`ddocname` in any database with `dbname`.

You could also change the default function to handle request by changing
the setting :option:`httpd/redirect_vhost_handler`.

Commit message:

Support for user configurable SSL ciphers

src/config/http.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config

.. highlight:: ini

===================
CouchDB HTTP Server
===================

.. _config/httpd:

HTTP Server Options
===================

.. config:section:: httpd :: HTTP Server Options

  .. config:option:: allow_jsonp :: Enables JSONP support

    The ``true`` value of this option enables `JSONP`_ support (it's ``false`` by
    default)::

      [httpd]
      allow_jsonp = false

    .. _JSONP: http://www.json-p.org/


  .. config:option:: authentication_handlers :: Authentication handlers

    List of used authentication handlers that used by CouchDB. You may extend
    them via third-party plugins or remove some of them if you won't let users
    to use one of provided methods::

      [httpd]
      authentication_handlers = {couch_httpd_oauth, oauth_authentication_handler}, {couch_httpd_auth, cookie_authentication_handler}, {couch_httpd_auth, default_authentication_handler}

    - ``{couch_httpd_oauth, oauth_authentication_handler}``: handles OAuth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, cookie_authentication_handler}``: used for Cookie auth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, proxy_authentication_handler}``: used for Proxy auth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, default_authentication_handler}``: used for Basic auth;
    - ``{couch_httpd_auth, null_authentication_handler}``: disables auth.
      Everlasting `Admin Party`!


  .. config:option:: bind_address :: Listen IP address

    Defines the IP address by which CouchDB will be accessible::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = 127.0.0.1

    To let CouchDB listen any available IP address, just setup ``0.0.0.0``
    value::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = 0.0.0.0

    For IPv6 support you need to set ``::1`` if you want to let CouchDB listen
    local address::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = ::1

    or ``::`` for any available::

      [httpd]
      bind_address = ::


  .. config:option:: changes_timeout :: Changes feed timeout

    Specifies default `timeout` value for :ref:`Changes Feed <changes>` in
    milliseconds (60000 by default)::

      [httpd]
      changes_feed = 60000 ; 60 seconds


  .. config:option:: config_whitelist :: Config options while list

    Sets the configuration modification whitelist. Only whitelisted values
    may be changed via the :ref:`config API <api/config>`. To allow the admin
    to change this value over HTTP, remember to include
    ``{httpd,config_whitelist}`` itself. Excluding it from the list would
    require editing this file to update the whitelist::

      [httpd]
      config_whitelist = [{httpd,config_whitelist}, {log,level}, {etc,etc}]


  .. config:option:: default_handler :: Default request handler

    Specifies default HTTP requests handler::

      [httpd]
      default_handler = {couch_httpd_db, handle_request}


  .. config:option:: enable_cors :: Activates CORS

    .. versionadded:: 1.3

    Controls :ref:`CORS <config/cors>` feature::

      [httpd]
      enable_cors = false


  .. config:option:: log_max_chunk_size :: Logs chunk size

    Defines maximum chunk size in bytes for :ref:`_log <api/server/log>`
    resource::

      [httpd]
      log_max_chunk_size = 1000000


  .. config:option:: port :: Listen port

    Defined the port number to listen::

      [httpd]
      port = 5984

    To let CouchDB handle any free port, set this option to ``0``::

      [httpd]
      port = 0

    After that, CouchDB URI could be located within the URI file.


  .. config:option:: redirect_vhost_handler :: Virtual Hosts custom redirect handler

    This option customizes the default function that handles requests to
    :section:`virtual hosts <vhosts>`::

      [httpd]
      redirect_vhost_handler = {Module, Fun}

    The specified function take 2 arguments: the Mochiweb request object and the
    target path.


  .. config:option:: server_options :: MochiWeb Server Options

    Server options for the `MochiWeb`_ component of CouchDB can be added to the
    configuration files::

      [httpd]
      server_options = [{backlog, 128}, {acceptor_pool_size, 16}]

    .. _MochiWeb: https://github.com/mochi/mochiweb


  .. config:option:: secure_rewrites :: Default request handler

    This option allow to isolate databases via subdomains::

      [httpd]
      secure_rewrites = true


  .. config:option:: socket_options :: Socket Options

    The socket options for the listening socket in CouchDB can be specified as
    a list of tuples. For example::

      [httpd]
      socket_options = [{recbuf, 262144}, {sndbuf, 262144}, {nodelay, true}]

    The options supported are a subset of full options supported by the
    TCP/IP stack. A list of the supported options are provided in the
    `Erlang inet`_ documentation.

    .. _Erlang inet: http://www.erlang.org/doc/man/inet.html#setopts-2


  .. config:option:: vhost_global_handlers :: Virtual hosts global handlers

    List of global handlers that are available for :section:`virtual hosts
    <vhosts>`::

      [httpd]
      vhost_global_handlers = _utils, _uuids, _session, _oauth, _users


  .. config:option:: x_forwarded_host :: X-Forwarder-Host

    The `x_forwarded_host` header (``X-Forwarded-Host`` by default) is used to
    forward the original value of the ``Host`` header field in case, for
    example, if a reverse proxy is rewriting the "Host" header field to some
    internal host name before forward the request to CouchDB::

      [httpd]
      x_forwarded_host = X-Forwarded-Host

    This header has higher priority above ``Host`` one, if only it exists in
    the request.


  .. config:option:: x_forwarded_proto :: X-Forwarder-Proto

    `x_forwarded_proto` header (``X-Forwarder-Proto`` by default) is used for
    identifying the originating protocol of an HTTP request, since a reverse
    proxy may communicate with CouchDB instance using HTTP even if the request
    to the reverse proxy is HTTPS::

      [httpd]
      x_forwarded_proto = X-Forwarded-Proto


  .. config:option:: x_forwarded_ssl :: X-Forwarder-Ssl

    The `x_forwarded_ssl` header (``X-Forwarded-Ssl`` by default) tells CouchDB
    that it should use the `https` scheme instead of the `http`. Actually, it's
    a synonym for ``X-Forwarded-Proto: https`` header, but used by some reverse
    proxies::

      [httpd]
      x_forwarded_ssl = X-Forwarded-Ssl


  .. config:option:: WWW-Authenticate :: Force basic auth

    Set this option to trigger basic-auth popup on unauthorized requests::

      [httpd]
      WWW-Authenticate = Basic realm="Welcome to the Couch!"


.. _config/ssl:

Secure Socket Level Options
===========================

.. config:section:: ssl :: Secure Socket Level Options

  CouchDB supports SSL natively. All your secure connection needs can
  now be served without needing to setup and maintain a separate proxy server
  that handles SSL.

  SSL setup can be tricky, but the configuration in CouchDB was designed
  to be as easy as possible. All you need is two files; a certificate and
  a private key. If you bought an official SSL certificate from a
  certificate authority, both should be in your possession already.

  If you just want to try this out and don't want to pay anything upfront,
  you can create a self-signed certificate. Everything will work the same,
  but clients will get a warning about an insecure certificate.

  You will need the `OpenSSL`_ command line tool installed. It probably
  already is.

  .. code-block:: bash

    shell> mkdir /etc/couchdb/cert
    shell> cd /etc/couchdb/cert
    shell> openssl genrsa > privkey.pem
    shell> openssl req -new -x509 -key privkey.pem -out couchdb.pem -days 1095
    shell> chmod 600 privkey.pem couchdb.pem
    shell> chown couchdb privkey.pem couchdb.pem

  Now, you need to edit CouchDB's configuration, either by editing your
  ``local.ini`` file or using the ``/_config`` API calls or the
  configuration screen in Futon. Here is what you need to do in
  ``local.ini``, you can infer what needs doing in the other places.

  At first, :option:`enable the HTTPS daemon <daemons/httpsd>`::

    [daemons]
    httpsd = {couch_httpd, start_link, [https]}

  Next, under ``[ssl]`` section setup newly generated certificates::

    [ssl]
    cert_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/couchdb.pem
    key_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/privkey.pem

  For more information please read `certificates HOWTO`_.

  Now start (or restart) CouchDB. You should be able to connect to it
  using HTTPS on port 6984:

  .. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl https://127.0.0.1:6984/
    curl: (60) SSL certificate problem, verify that the CA cert is OK. Details:
    error:14090086:SSL routines:SSL3_GET_SERVER_CERTIFICATE:certificate verify failed
    More details here: http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html

    curl performs SSL certificate verification by default, using a "bundle"
    of Certificate Authority (CA) public keys (CA certs). If the default
    bundle file isn't adequate, you can specify an alternate file
    using the --cacert option.
    If this HTTPS server uses a certificate signed by a CA represented in
    the bundle, the certificate verification probably failed due to a
    problem with the certificate (it might be expired, or the name might
    not match the domain name in the URL).
    If you'd like to turn off curl's verification of the certificate, use
    the -k (or --insecure) option.

  Oh no! What happened?! Remember, clients will notify their users that
  your certificate is self signed. ``curl`` is the client in this case and
  it notifies you. Luckily you trust yourself (don't you?) and you can
  specify the ``-k`` option as the message reads:

  .. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl -k https://127.0.0.1:6984/
    {"couchdb":"Welcome","version":"1.5.0"}

  All done.

  .. _`certificates HOWTO`: http://www.openssl.org/docs/HOWTO/certificates.txt
  .. _OpenSSL: http://www.openssl.org/


  .. config:option:: cacert_file :: CA Certificate file

    Path to file containing PEM encoded CA certificates (trusted certificates
    used for verifying a peer certificate). May be omitted if you do not want
    to verify the peer::

      [ssl]
      cacert_file = /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt


  .. config:option:: cert_file :: Certificate file

    Path to a file containing the user's certificate::

      [ssl]
      cert_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/couchdb.pem


  .. config:option:: key_file :: Certificate key file

    Path to file containing user's private PEM encoded key::

      [ssl]
      key_file = /etc/couchdb/cert/privkey.pem


  .. config:option:: password :: Certificate key password

    String containing the user's password. Only used if the private keyfile is
    password protected::

      [ssl]
      password = somepassword


  .. config:option:: ssl_certificate_max_depth :: Maximum peer certificate depth

    Maximum peer certificate depth (must be set even if certificate validation
    is off)::

      [ssl]
      ssl_certificate_max_depth = 1


  .. config:option:: verify_fun :: SSL verification function

    The verification fun (optional) if not specified, the default
    verification fun will be used::

      [ssl]
      verify_fun = {Module, VerifyFun}


  .. config:option:: verify_ssl_certificates :: Enable certificate verification

    Set to `true` to validate peer certificates::

      [ssl]
      verify_ssl_certificates = false

  .. config:option:: secure_renegotiate :: Enable secure renegotiation

    Set to `true` to reject renegotiation attempt that does not live up to RFC 5746::

      [ssl]
      secure_renegotiate = true

  .. config:option:: ciphers :: Specify permitted server cipher list

    Set to the cipher suites that should be supported which can be
    specified in erlang format "{ecdhe_ecdsa,aes_128_cbc,sha256}" or
    in OpenSSL format "ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA256".

      [ssl]
      ciphers = ["ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA256", "ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA"]

  .. config:option:: tls_versions :: Specify permitted server SSL/TLS
                     protocol versions

    Set to a list of permitted SSL/TLS protocol versions::

      [ssl]
      tls_versions = [sslv3 | tlsv1 | 'tlsv1.1' | 'tlsv1.2']


.. _cors:
.. _config/cors:

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
=============================

.. config:section:: cors :: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing

  .. versionadded:: 1.3 added CORS support, see JIRA :issue:`431`

  `CORS`, or "Cross-Origin Resource Sharing", allows a resource such as a web
  page running JavaScript inside a browser, to make AJAX requests
  (XMLHttpRequests) to a different domain, without compromising the security
  of either party.

  A typical use case is to have a static website hosted on a CDN make
  requests to another resource, such as a hosted CouchDB instance. This
  avoids needing an intermediary proxy, using `JSONP` or similar workarounds
  to retrieve and host content.

  While CouchDB's integrated HTTP server has support for document attachments
  makes this less of a constraint for pure CouchDB projects, there are many
  cases where separating the static content from the database access is
  desirable, and CORS makes this very straightforward.

  By supporting CORS functionality, a CouchDB instance can accept direct
  connections to protected databases and instances, without the browser
  functionality being blocked due to same-origin constraints. CORS is
  supported today on over 90% of recent browsers.

  CORS support is provided as experimental functionality in 1.3, and as such
  will need to be enabled specifically in CouchDB's configuration. While all
  origins are forbidden from making requests by default, support is available
  for simple requests, preflight requests and per-vhost configuration.

  This section requires :option:`httpd/enable_cors` option have
  ``true`` value::

    [httpd]
    enable_cors = true


  .. config:option:: credentials

    By default, neither authentication headers nor cookies are included in
    requests and responses. To do so requires both setting
    ``XmlHttpRequest.withCredentials = true`` on the request object in the
    browser and enabling credentials support in CouchDB.

    ::

      [cors]
      credentials = true

    CouchDB will respond to a credentials-enabled CORS request with an
    additional header, ``Access-Control-Allow-Credentials=true``.


  .. config:option:: origins

    List of origins separated by a comma, ``*`` means accept all.
    You can’t set ``origins = *`` and ``credentials = true`` option at the same
    time::

      [cors]
      origins = *

    Access can be restricted by protocol, host and optionally by port. Origins
    must follow the scheme: http://example.com:80::

      [cors]
      origins = http://localhost, https://localhost, http://couch.mydev.name:8080

    Note that by default, no origins are accepted. You must define them
    explicitly.


  .. config:option:: headers

    List of accepted headers separated by a comma::

      [cors]
      headers = X-Couch-Id, X-Couch-Rev


  .. config:option:: methods

    List of accepted methods::

      [cors]
      methods = GET,POST

  .. seealso::

     Original JIRA `implementation ticket <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB-431>`_

     Standards and References:

     - IETF RFCs relating to methods: :rfc:`2618`, :rfc:`2817`, :rfc:`5789`
     - IETF RFC for Web Origins: :rfc:`6454`
     - W3C `CORS standard <http://www.w3.org/TR/cors>`_

     Mozilla Developer Network Resources:

     - `Same origin policy for URIs <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Same-origin_policy_for_file:_URIs>`_
     - `HTTP Access Control <https://developer.mozilla.org/En/HTTP_access_control>`_
     - `Server-side Access Control <https://developer.mozilla.org/En/Server-Side_Access_Control>`_
     - `Javascript same origin policy <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Same_origin_policy_for_JavaScript>`_

     Client-side CORS support and usage:

     - `CORS browser support matrix <http://caniuse.com/cors>`_
     - `COS tutorial <http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/cors/>`_
     - `XHR with CORS <http://hacks.mozilla.org/2009/07/cross-site-xmlhttprequest-with-cors/>`_


Per Virtual Host Configuration
------------------------------

To set the options for a :section:`vhosts`, you will need to create a section
with the vhost name prefixed by ``cors:``. Example case for the vhost
`example.com`::

  [cors:example.com]
  credentials = false
  ; List of origins separated by a comma
  origins = *
  ; List of accepted headers separated by a comma
  headers = X-CouchDB-Header
  ; List of accepted methods
  methods = HEAD, GET



.. _config/vhosts:

Virtual Hosts
=============

.. config:section:: vhosts :: Virtual Hosts

  CouchDB can map requests to different locations based on the ``Host`` header,
  even if they arrive on the same inbound IP address.

  This allows different virtual hosts on the same machine to map to different
  databases or design documents, etc. The most common use case is to map a
  virtual host to a :ref:`Rewrite Handler <api/ddoc/rewrite>`, to provide full
  control over the application's URIs.

  To add a virtual host, add a `CNAME` pointer to the DNS for your domain
  name. For development and testing, it is sufficient to add an entry in
  the hosts file, typically `/etc/hosts`` on Unix-like operating systems:

  .. code-block:: text

     # CouchDB vhost definitions, refer to local.ini for further details
     127.0.0.1       couchdb.local

  Test that this is working:

  .. code-block:: bash

     $ ping -n 2 couchdb.local
     PING couchdb.local (127.0.0.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
     64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_req=1 ttl=64 time=0.025 ms
     64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_req=2 ttl=64 time=0.051 ms

  Finally, add an entry to your :ref:`configuration file <config>` in the
  ``[vhosts]`` section::

    [vhosts]
    couchdb.local:5984 = /example
    *.couchdb.local:5984 = /example

  If your CouchDB is listening on the the default HTTP port (80), or is sitting
  behind a proxy, then you don't need to specify a port number in the `vhost`
  key.

  The first line will rewrite the request to display the content of the
  `example` database. This rule works only if the ``Host`` header is
  ``couchdb.local`` and won't work for `CNAMEs`. The second rule, on the other
  hand, matches all `CNAMEs` to `example` db, so that both `www.couchdb.local`
  and `db.couchdb.local` will work.


Rewriting Hosts to a Path
-------------------------

Like in the :ref:`_rewrite <api/ddoc/rewrite>` handler you can match some
variable and use them to create the target path. Some examples::

  [vhosts]
  *.couchdb.local = /*
  :dbname. = /:dbname
  :ddocname.:dbname.example.com = /:dbname/_design/:ddocname/_rewrite


The first rule passes the wildcard as `dbname`. The second one does the same,
but uses a variable name. And the third one allows you to use any URL with
`ddocname` in any database with `dbname`.

You could also change the default function to handle request by changing
the setting :option:`httpd/redirect_vhost_handler`.
