src/config/misc.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config

.. highlight:: ini

========================
Miscellaneous Parameters
========================

.. _config/attachments:

Configuration of Attachment Storage
===================================

.. config:section:: attachments :: Configuration of Attachment Storage

  .. config:option:: compression_level
    
    Defines zlib compression level for the attachments from ``1`` (lowest,
    fastest) to ``9`` (highest, slowest). A value of ``0`` disables compression

    ::
    
      [attachments]
      compression_level = 8
    

  .. config:option:: compressible_types
    
    Since compression is ineffective for some types of files, it is possible
    to let CouchDB compress only some types of attachments, specified by their
    MIME type::
    
      [attachments]
      compressible_types = text/*, application/javascript, application/json, application/xml


.. _config/stats:

Statistic Calculation
=====================

.. config:section:: stats :: Statistic Calculation
  
  
  .. config:option:: rate
    
    Rate of statistics gathering in milliseconds::
    
      [stats]
      rate = 1000

    
  .. config:option:: samples
    
    Samples are used to track the mean and standard value deviation within
    specified intervals (in seconds)::
    
      [stats]
      samples = [0, 60, 300, 900]


.. _config/uuids:

UUIDs Configuration
===================

.. config:section:: uuids :: UUIDs Configuration

  .. config:option:: algorithm :: Generation Algorithm

    .. versionchanged:: 1.3 Added ``utc_id`` algorithm.

    CouchDB provides various algorithms to generate the UUID values that are
    used for document `_id`'s by default::

      [uuids]
      algorithm = sequential

    Available algorithms:

    - ``random``: 128 bits of random awesome. All awesome, all the time:

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "5fcbbf2cb171b1d5c3bc6df3d4affb32",
            "9115e0942372a87a977f1caf30b2ac29",
            "3840b51b0b81b46cab99384d5cd106e3",
            "b848dbdeb422164babf2705ac18173e1",
            "b7a8566af7e0fc02404bb676b47c3bf7",
            "a006879afdcae324d70e925c420c860d",
            "5f7716ee487cc4083545d4ca02cd45d4",
            "35fdd1c8346c22ccc43cc45cd632e6d6",
            "97bbdb4a1c7166682dc026e1ac97a64c",
            "eb242b506a6ae330bda6969bb2677079"
          ]
        }

    - ``sequential``: Monotonically increasing ids with random increments.
      The first 26 hex characters are random, the last 6 increment in random
      amounts until an overflow occurs. On overflow, the random prefix is
      regenerated and the process starts over.

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54804894",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da5480512f",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54805c25",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54806ba1",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da548072b3",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807609",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807718",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807754",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807e5d",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54808d28"
          ]
        }

    - ``utc_random``: The time since Jan 1, 1970 UTC, in microseconds. The first
      14 characters are the time in hex. The last 18 are random.

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "04dd32b3af699659b6db9486a9c58c62",
            "04dd32b3af69bb1c2ac7ebfee0a50d88",
            "04dd32b3af69d8591b99a8e86a76e0fb",
            "04dd32b3af69f4a18a76efd89867f4f4",
            "04dd32b3af6a1f7925001274bbfde952",
            "04dd32b3af6a3fe8ea9b120ed906a57f",
            "04dd32b3af6a5b5c518809d3d4b76654",
            "04dd32b3af6a78f6ab32f1e928593c73",
            "04dd32b3af6a99916c665d6bbf857475",
            "04dd32b3af6ab558dd3f2c0afacb7d66"
          ]
        }

    - ``utc_id``: The time since Jan 1, 1970 UTC, in microseconds, plus
      the ``utc_id_suffix`` string. The first 14 characters are the time in hex.
      The :option:`uuids/utc_id_suffix` string value is appended to these.

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "04dd32bd5eabcc@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eabee@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac05@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac28@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac43@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac58@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac6e@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac84@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac98@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eacad@mycouch"
          ]
        }

    .. note::

       **Impact of UUID choices:** the choice of UUID has a significant impact
       on the layout of the B-tree, prior to compaction.

       For example, using a sequential UUID algorithm while uploading a large
       batch of documents will avoid the need to rewrite many intermediate
       B-tree nodes. A random UUID algorithm may require rewriting intermediate
       nodes on a regular basis, resulting in significantly decreased throughput
       and wasted disk space space due to the append-only B-tree design.

       It is generally recommended to set your own UUIDs, or use the sequential
       algorithm unless you have a specific need and take into account
       the likely need for compaction to re-balance the B-tree and reclaim
       wasted space.
  

  .. config:option:: utc_id_suffix :: UTC ID Suffix

    .. versionadded:: 1.3

    The ``utc_id_suffix`` value will be appended to UUIDs generated by the
    ``utc_id`` algorithm. Replicating instances should have unique
    ``utc_id_suffix`` values to ensure uniqueness of ``utc_id`` ids.

    ::

      [uuid]
      utc_id_suffix = my-awesome-suffix



.. _config/vendor:

Vendor information
==================

.. config:section:: vendor :: Vendor information

  .. versionadded:: 1.3

  CouchDB distributors have the option of customizing CouchDB's welcome
  message. This is returned when requesting ``GET /``.

  ::

    [vendor]
    name = The Apache Software Foundation
    version = 1.5.0

Commit message:

Add documentation for new uuids.max_count option

src/config/misc.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. default-domain:: config

.. highlight:: ini

========================
Miscellaneous Parameters
========================

.. _config/attachments:

Configuration of Attachment Storage
===================================

.. config:section:: attachments :: Configuration of Attachment Storage

  .. config:option:: compression_level
    
    Defines zlib compression level for the attachments from ``1`` (lowest,
    fastest) to ``9`` (highest, slowest). A value of ``0`` disables compression

    ::
    
      [attachments]
      compression_level = 8
    

  .. config:option:: compressible_types
    
    Since compression is ineffective for some types of files, it is possible
    to let CouchDB compress only some types of attachments, specified by their
    MIME type::
    
      [attachments]
      compressible_types = text/*, application/javascript, application/json, application/xml


.. _config/stats:

Statistic Calculation
=====================

.. config:section:: stats :: Statistic Calculation
  
  
  .. config:option:: rate
    
    Rate of statistics gathering in milliseconds::
    
      [stats]
      rate = 1000

    
  .. config:option:: samples
    
    Samples are used to track the mean and standard value deviation within
    specified intervals (in seconds)::
    
      [stats]
      samples = [0, 60, 300, 900]


.. _config/uuids:

UUIDs Configuration
===================

.. config:section:: uuids :: UUIDs Configuration

  .. config:option:: algorithm :: Generation Algorithm

    .. versionchanged:: 1.3 Added ``utc_id`` algorithm.

    CouchDB provides various algorithms to generate the UUID values that are
    used for document `_id`'s by default::

      [uuids]
      algorithm = sequential

    Available algorithms:

    - ``random``: 128 bits of random awesome. All awesome, all the time:

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "5fcbbf2cb171b1d5c3bc6df3d4affb32",
            "9115e0942372a87a977f1caf30b2ac29",
            "3840b51b0b81b46cab99384d5cd106e3",
            "b848dbdeb422164babf2705ac18173e1",
            "b7a8566af7e0fc02404bb676b47c3bf7",
            "a006879afdcae324d70e925c420c860d",
            "5f7716ee487cc4083545d4ca02cd45d4",
            "35fdd1c8346c22ccc43cc45cd632e6d6",
            "97bbdb4a1c7166682dc026e1ac97a64c",
            "eb242b506a6ae330bda6969bb2677079"
          ]
        }

    - ``sequential``: Monotonically increasing ids with random increments.
      The first 26 hex characters are random, the last 6 increment in random
      amounts until an overflow occurs. On overflow, the random prefix is
      regenerated and the process starts over.

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54804894",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da5480512f",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54805c25",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54806ba1",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da548072b3",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807609",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807718",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807754",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54807e5d",
            "4e17c12963f4bee0e6ec90da54808d28"
          ]
        }

    - ``utc_random``: The time since Jan 1, 1970 UTC, in microseconds. The first
      14 characters are the time in hex. The last 18 are random.

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "04dd32b3af699659b6db9486a9c58c62",
            "04dd32b3af69bb1c2ac7ebfee0a50d88",
            "04dd32b3af69d8591b99a8e86a76e0fb",
            "04dd32b3af69f4a18a76efd89867f4f4",
            "04dd32b3af6a1f7925001274bbfde952",
            "04dd32b3af6a3fe8ea9b120ed906a57f",
            "04dd32b3af6a5b5c518809d3d4b76654",
            "04dd32b3af6a78f6ab32f1e928593c73",
            "04dd32b3af6a99916c665d6bbf857475",
            "04dd32b3af6ab558dd3f2c0afacb7d66"
          ]
        }

    - ``utc_id``: The time since Jan 1, 1970 UTC, in microseconds, plus
      the ``utc_id_suffix`` string. The first 14 characters are the time in hex.
      The :option:`uuids/utc_id_suffix` string value is appended to these.

      .. code-block:: javascript

        {
          "uuids": [
            "04dd32bd5eabcc@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eabee@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac05@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac28@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac43@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac58@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac6e@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac84@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eac98@mycouch",
            "04dd32bd5eacad@mycouch"
          ]
        }

    .. note::

       **Impact of UUID choices:** the choice of UUID has a significant impact
       on the layout of the B-tree, prior to compaction.

       For example, using a sequential UUID algorithm while uploading a large
       batch of documents will avoid the need to rewrite many intermediate
       B-tree nodes. A random UUID algorithm may require rewriting intermediate
       nodes on a regular basis, resulting in significantly decreased throughput
       and wasted disk space space due to the append-only B-tree design.

       It is generally recommended to set your own UUIDs, or use the sequential
       algorithm unless you have a specific need and take into account
       the likely need for compaction to re-balance the B-tree and reclaim
       wasted space.
  

  .. config:option:: utc_id_suffix :: UTC ID Suffix

    .. versionadded:: 1.3

    The ``utc_id_suffix`` value will be appended to UUIDs generated by the
    ``utc_id`` algorithm. Replicating instances should have unique
    ``utc_id_suffix`` values to ensure uniqueness of ``utc_id`` ids.

    ::

      [uuid]
      utc_id_suffix = my-awesome-suffix

  .. config:option:: max_count :: Per-Request UUID Limit

    .. versionadded:: 1.5.1

    No more than this number of UUIDs will be sent in a single request. If
    more UUIDs are requested, an HTTP error response will be thrown.

    ::

      [uuid]
      max_count = 1000


.. _config/vendor:

Vendor information
==================

.. config:section:: vendor :: Vendor information

  .. versionadded:: 1.3

  CouchDB distributors have the option of customizing CouchDB's welcome
  message. This is returned when requesting ``GET /``.

  ::

    [vendor]
    name = The Apache Software Foundation
    version = 1.5.0
