src/api/ddoc/render.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _api/ddoc/show:

==========================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_show/show-name``
==========================================

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}
    :synopsis: Executes a show function against null document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`show function <showfun>` for `null` document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Show function name
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc) {
                return {body: "no doc"}
            } else {
                return {body: doc.description}
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/recipe/_show/description HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Length: 6
        Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:34:07 GMT
        Etag: "7Z2TO7FPEMZ0F4GH0RJCRIOAU"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Vary: Accept

        no doc

.. _api/ddoc/show/id:

=================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_show/show-name/doc-id``
=================================================

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}/{docid}
    :synopsis: Executes a show function against the specified document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}/{docid}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`show function <showfun>` for the specified document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Show function name
    :param docid: Document ID
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc) {
                return {body: "no doc"}
            } else {
                return {body: doc.description}
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/recipe/_show/description/SpaghettiWithMeatballs HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Length: 88
        Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:38:08 GMT
        Etag: "8IEBO8103EI98HDZL5Z4I1T0C"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Vary: Accept

        An Italian-American dish that usually consists of spaghetti, tomato sauce and meatballs.

.. _api/ddoc/list:

====================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_list/list-name/view-name``
====================================================

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{view}
    :synopsis: Executes a list function against the view from the same
               design document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{view}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`list function <listfun>` for the :ref:`view function
    <viewfun>` from the same design document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: List function name
    :param view: View function name
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :>header Transfer-Encoding: ``chunked``
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(head, req) {
            var row = getRow();
            if (!row){
                return 'no ingredients'
            }
            send(row.key);
            while(row=getRow()){
                send(', ' + row.key);
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/recipe/_list/ingredients/by_name HTTP/1.1
        Accept: text/plain
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:49:15 GMT
        Etag: "D52L2M1TKQYDD1Y8MEYJR8C84"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Vary: Accept

        meatballs, spaghetti, tomato sauce

.. _api/ddoc/list/ddoc:

===============================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_list/list-name/other-ddoc/view-name``
===============================================================

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{other-ddoc}/{view}
    :synopsis: Executes a list function against the view from other
               design document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{other-ddoc}/{view}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`list function <listfun>` for the :ref:`view function
    <viewfun>` from the other design document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: List function name
    :param other-ddoc: Other design document name that holds view function
    :param view: View function name
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :>header Transfer-Encoding: ``chunked``
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(head, req) {
            var row = getRow();
            if (!row){
                return 'no ingredients'
            }
            send(row.key);
            while(row=getRow()){
                send(', ' + row.key);
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/ingredient/_list/ingredients/recipe/by_ingredient?key="spaghetti" HTTP/1.1
        Accept: text/plain
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:49:15 GMT
        Etag: "5L0975X493R0FB5Z3043POZHD"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Vary: Accept

        spaghetti

.. _api/ddoc/update:

==============================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_update/update-name``
==============================================

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_update/{func}
    :synopsis: Executes an update function against the null document

    Executes :ref:`update function <updatefun>` on server side for ``null``
    document.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Update function name
    :>header X-Couch-Id: Created/updated document's ID
    :>header X-Couch-Update-NewRev: Created/updated document's revision
    :code 200: No document was created or updated
    :code 201: Document was created or updated
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc){
              return [null, {'code': 400,
                             'json': {'error': 'missed',
                                      'reason': 'no document to update'}}]
            } else {
                doc.ingredients.push(req.body);
                return [doc, {'json': {'status': 'ok'}}];
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        POST /recipes/_design/recipe/_update/ingredients HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Content-Length: 10
        Content-Type: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

        "something"

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 404 Object Not Found
        Cache-Control: must-revalidate
        Content-Length: 52
        Content-Type: application/json
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 14:00:58 GMT
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

        {
            "error": "missed",
            "reason": "no document to update"
        }

.. _api/ddoc/update/id:

=====================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_update/update-name/doc-id``
=====================================================

.. http:put:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_update/{func}/{docid}
    :synopsis: Executes an update function against the specified document

    Executes :ref:`update function <updatefun>` on server side for the specified
    document.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Update function name
    :param docid: Document ID
    :>header X-Couch-Id: Created/updated document's ID
    :>header X-Couch-Update-NewRev: Created/updated document's revision
    :code 200: No document was created or updated
    :code 201: Document was created or updated
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc){
                return [null, {'code': 400,
                               'json': {'error': 'missed',
                                        'reason': 'no document to update'}}]
            } else {
                doc.ingredients.push(req.body);
                return [doc, {'json': {'status': 'ok'}}];
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        POST /recipes/_design/recipe/_update/ingredients/SpaghettiWithMeatballs HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Content-Length: 5
        Content-Type: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

        "love"

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 201 Created
        Cache-Control: must-revalidate
        Content-Length: 16
        Content-Type: application/json
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 14:11:34 GMT
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        X-Couch-Id: SpaghettiWithMeatballs
        X-Couch-Update-NewRev: 12-a5e099df5720988dae90c8b664496baf

        {
            "status": "ok"
        }

Commit message:

Deprecate show, list, rewrite, vhosts

src/api/ddoc/render.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _api/ddoc/show:

==========================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_show/show-name``
==========================================

.. warning::

    Show functions are deprecated in CouchDB 3.0, and will be removed in CouchDB 4.0.

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}
    :synopsis: Executes a show function against null document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`show function <showfun>` for `null` document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Show function name
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc) {
                return {body: "no doc"}
            } else {
                return {body: doc.description}
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/recipe/_show/description HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Length: 6
        Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:34:07 GMT
        Etag: "7Z2TO7FPEMZ0F4GH0RJCRIOAU"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Vary: Accept

        no doc

.. _api/ddoc/show/id:

=================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_show/show-name/doc-id``
=================================================

.. warning::

    Show functions are deprecated in CouchDB 3.0, and will be removed in CouchDB 4.0.

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}/{docid}
    :synopsis: Executes a show function against the specified document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_show/{func}/{docid}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`show function <showfun>` for the specified document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Show function name
    :param docid: Document ID
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc) {
                return {body: "no doc"}
            } else {
                return {body: doc.description}
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/recipe/_show/description/SpaghettiWithMeatballs HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Length: 88
        Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:38:08 GMT
        Etag: "8IEBO8103EI98HDZL5Z4I1T0C"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Vary: Accept

        An Italian-American dish that usually consists of spaghetti, tomato sauce and meatballs.

.. _api/ddoc/list:

====================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_list/list-name/view-name``
====================================================

.. warning::

    List functions are deprecated in CouchDB 3.0, and will be removed in CouchDB 4.0.

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{view}
    :synopsis: Executes a list function against the view from the same
               design document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{view}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`list function <listfun>` for the :ref:`view function
    <viewfun>` from the same design document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: List function name
    :param view: View function name
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :>header Transfer-Encoding: ``chunked``
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(head, req) {
            var row = getRow();
            if (!row){
                return 'no ingredients'
            }
            send(row.key);
            while(row=getRow()){
                send(', ' + row.key);
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/recipe/_list/ingredients/by_name HTTP/1.1
        Accept: text/plain
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:49:15 GMT
        Etag: "D52L2M1TKQYDD1Y8MEYJR8C84"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Vary: Accept

        meatballs, spaghetti, tomato sauce

.. _api/ddoc/list/ddoc:

===============================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_list/list-name/other-ddoc/view-name``
===============================================================

.. warning::

    List functions are deprecated in CouchDB 3.0, and will be removed in CouchDB 4.0.

.. http:get:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{other-ddoc}/{view}
    :synopsis: Executes a list function against the view from other
               design document

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_list/{func}/{other-ddoc}/{view}
    :synopsis: Same as GET method for the related endpoint

    Applies :ref:`list function <listfun>` for the :ref:`view function
    <viewfun>` from the other design document.

    The request and response parameters are depended upon function
    implementation.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: List function name
    :param other-ddoc: Other design document name that holds view function
    :param view: View function name
    :>header ETag: Response signature
    :>header Transfer-Encoding: ``chunked``
    :query string format: Format of the returned response.
      Used by :js:func:`provides` function
    :code 200: Request completed successfully
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(head, req) {
            var row = getRow();
            if (!row){
                return 'no ingredients'
            }
            send(row.key);
            while(row=getRow()){
                send(', ' + row.key);
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        GET /recipes/_design/ingredient/_list/ingredients/recipe/by_ingredient?key="spaghetti" HTTP/1.1
        Accept: text/plain
        Host: localhost:5984

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 12:49:15 GMT
        Etag: "5L0975X493R0FB5Z3043POZHD"
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        Transfer-Encoding: chunked
        Vary: Accept

        spaghetti

.. _api/ddoc/update:

==============================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_update/update-name``
==============================================

.. http:post:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_update/{func}
    :synopsis: Executes an update function against the null document

    Executes :ref:`update function <updatefun>` on server side for ``null``
    document.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Update function name
    :>header X-Couch-Id: Created/updated document's ID
    :>header X-Couch-Update-NewRev: Created/updated document's revision
    :code 200: No document was created or updated
    :code 201: Document was created or updated
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc){
              return [null, {'code': 400,
                             'json': {'error': 'missed',
                                      'reason': 'no document to update'}}]
            } else {
                doc.ingredients.push(req.body);
                return [doc, {'json': {'status': 'ok'}}];
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        POST /recipes/_design/recipe/_update/ingredients HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Content-Length: 10
        Content-Type: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

        "something"

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 404 Object Not Found
        Cache-Control: must-revalidate
        Content-Length: 52
        Content-Type: application/json
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 14:00:58 GMT
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)

        {
            "error": "missed",
            "reason": "no document to update"
        }

.. _api/ddoc/update/id:

=====================================================
``/db/_design/design-doc/_update/update-name/doc-id``
=====================================================

.. http:put:: /{db}/_design/{ddoc}/_update/{func}/{docid}
    :synopsis: Executes an update function against the specified document

    Executes :ref:`update function <updatefun>` on server side for the specified
    document.

    :param db: Database name
    :param ddoc: Design document name
    :param func: Update function name
    :param docid: Document ID
    :>header X-Couch-Id: Created/updated document's ID
    :>header X-Couch-Update-NewRev: Created/updated document's revision
    :code 200: No document was created or updated
    :code 201: Document was created or updated
    :code 500: Query server error

    **Function**:

    .. code-block:: javascript

        function(doc, req) {
            if (!doc){
                return [null, {'code': 400,
                               'json': {'error': 'missed',
                                        'reason': 'no document to update'}}]
            } else {
                doc.ingredients.push(req.body);
                return [doc, {'json': {'status': 'ok'}}];
            }
        }

    **Request**:

    .. code-block:: http

        POST /recipes/_design/recipe/_update/ingredients/SpaghettiWithMeatballs HTTP/1.1
        Accept: application/json
        Content-Length: 5
        Content-Type: application/json
        Host: localhost:5984

        "love"

    **Response**:

    .. code-block:: http

        HTTP/1.1 201 Created
        Cache-Control: must-revalidate
        Content-Length: 16
        Content-Type: application/json
        Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2013 14:11:34 GMT
        Server: CouchDB (Erlang/OTP)
        X-Couch-Id: SpaghettiWithMeatballs
        X-Couch-Update-NewRev: 12-a5e099df5720988dae90c8b664496baf

        {
            "status": "ok"
        }
