src/couchapp/views/collation.rst, before:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _views/collation:

===============
Views Collation
===============

Basics
======

View functions specify a key and a value to be returned for each row. CouchDB
collates the view rows by this key. In the following example, the ``LastName``
property serves as the key, thus the result will be sorted by ``LastName``:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if (doc.Type == "customer") {
            emit(doc.LastName, {FirstName: doc.FirstName, Address: doc.Address});
        }
    }

CouchDB allows arbitrary JSON structures to be used as keys. You can use JSON
arrays as keys for fine-grained control over sorting and grouping.

Examples
========

The following clever trick would return both customer and order documents.
The key is composed of a customer ``_id`` and a sorting token. Because the key
for order documents begins with the ``_id`` of a customer document, all the
orders will be sorted by customer. Because the sorting token for customers is
lower than the token for orders, the customer document will come before the
associated orders. The values 0 and 1 for the sorting token are arbitrary.

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if (doc.Type == "customer") {
            emit([doc._id, 0], null);
        } else if (doc.Type == "order") {
            emit([doc.customer_id, 1], null);
        }
    }

To list a specific customer with ``_id`` XYZ, and all of that customer's orders,
limit the startkey and endkey ranges to cover only documents for that customer's
``_id``::

    startkey=["XYZ"]&endkey=["XYZ", {}]

It is not recommended to emit the document itself in the view. Instead, to
include the bodies of the documents when requesting the view, request the view
with ``?include_docs=true``.

Sorting by Dates
================

It maybe be convenient to store date attributes in a human readable format
(i.e. as a `string`), but still sort by date. This can be done by converting
the date to a `number` in the :js:func:`emit` function. For example, given
a document with a created_at attribute of ``'Wed Jul 23 16:29:21 +0100 2013'``,
the following emit function would sort by date:

.. code-block:: javascript

    emit(Date.parse(doc.created_at).getTime(), null);

Alternatively, if you use a date format which sorts lexicographically,
such as ``"2013/06/09 13:52:11 +0000"`` you can just

.. code-block:: javascript

    emit(doc.created_at, null);

and avoid the conversion. As a bonus, this date format is compatible with the
JavaScript date parser, so you can use ``new Date(doc.created_at)`` in your
client side JavaScript to make date sorting easy in the browser.

String Ranges
=============

If you need start and end keys that encompass every string with a given prefix,
it is better to use a high value unicode character, than to use a ``'ZZZZ'``
suffix.

That is, rather than::

    startkey="abc"&endkey="abcZZZZZZZZZ"

You should use::

    startkey="abc"&endkey="abc\ufff0"

Collation Specification
=======================

This section is based on the view_collation function in `view_collation.js`_:

.. _view_collation.js: https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=couchdb.git;a=blob;f=share/www/script/test/view_collation.js;hb=HEAD

.. code-block:: javascript

    // special values sort before all other types
    null
    false
    true

    // then numbers
    1
    2
    3.0
    4

    // then text, case sensitive
    "a"
    "A"
    "aa"
    "b"
    "B"
    "ba"
    "bb"

    // then arrays. compared element by element until different.
    // Longer arrays sort after their prefixes
    ["a"]
    ["b"]
    ["b","c"]
    ["b","c", "a"]
    ["b","d"]
    ["b","d", "e"]

    // then object, compares each key value in the list until different.
    // larger objects sort after their subset objects.
    {a:1}
    {a:2}
    {b:1}
    {b:2}
    {b:2, a:1} // Member order does matter for collation.
               // CouchDB preserves member order
               // but doesn't require that clients will.
               // this test might fail if used with a js engine
               // that doesn't preserve order
    {b:2, c:2}

Comparison of strings is done using `ICU`_ which implements the
`Unicode Collation Algorithm`_, giving a dictionary sorting of keys.
This can give surprising results if you were expecting ASCII ordering.
Note that:

- All symbols sort before numbers and letters (even the "high" symbols like
  tilde, ``0x7e``)

- Differing sequences of letters are compared without regard to case, so
  ``a < aa`` but also ``A < aa`` and ``a < AA``

- Identical sequences of letters are compared with regard to case, with
  lowercase before uppercase, so ``a < A``

.. _ICU: http://site.icu-project.org/
.. _Unicode Collation Algorithm: http://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/tr10/

You can demonstrate the collation sequence for 7-bit ASCII characters like this:

.. code-block:: ruby

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'restclient'
    require 'json'

    DB="http://127.0.0.1:5984/collator"

    RestClient.delete DB rescue nil
    RestClient.put "#{DB}",""

    (32..126).each do |c|
        RestClient.put "#{DB}/#{c.to_s(16)}", {"x"=>c.chr}.to_json
    end

    RestClient.put "#{DB}/_design/test", <<EOS
    {
        "views":{
            "one":{
                "map":"function (doc) { emit(doc.x,null); }"
            }
        }
    }
    EOS

    puts RestClient.get("#{DB}/_design/test/_view/one")

This shows the collation sequence to be::

    ` ^ _ - , ; : ! ? . ' " ( ) [ ] { } @ * / \ & # % + < = > | ~ $ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
    a A b B c C d D e E f F g G h H i I j J k K l L m M n N o O p P q Q r R s S t T u U v V w W x X y Y z Z

Key ranges
----------

Take special care when querying key ranges. For example: the query::

    startkey="Abc"&endkey="AbcZZZZ"

will match "ABC" and "abc1", but not "abc". This is because UCA sorts as::

    abc < Abc < ABC < abc1 < AbcZZZZZ

For most applications, to avoid problems you should lowercase the `startkey`::

    startkey="abc"&endkey="abcZZZZZZZZ"

will match all keys starting with ``[aA][bB][cC]``

Complex keys
------------

The query ``startkey=["foo"]&endkey=["foo",{}]`` will match most array keys
with "foo" in the first element, such as ``["foo","bar"]`` and
``["foo",["bar","baz"]]``. However it will not match ``["foo",{"an":"object"}]``

_all_docs
=========

The :ref:`_all_docs <api/db/all_docs>`  view is a special case because it uses
ASCII collation for doc ids, not UCA::

    startkey="_design/"&endkey="_design/ZZZZZZZZ"

will not find ``_design/abc`` because `'Z'` comes before `'a'` in the ASCII
sequence. A better solution is::

    startkey="_design/"&endkey="_design0"

Raw collation
=============

To squeeze a little more performance out of views, you can specify
``"options":{"collation":"raw"}``  within the view definition for native Erlang
collation, especially if you don't require UCA. This gives a different collation
sequence:

.. code-block:: javascript

    1
    false
    null
    true
    {"a":"a"},
    ["a"]
    "a"

Beware that ``{}`` is no longer a suitable "high" key sentinel value. Use a
string like ``"\ufff0"`` instead.

Commit message:

Fix Pygments warnings thrown by Sphinx
Since Sphinx 1.3.5, they show warnings if Pygments
throws an ErrorToken -- in other words, if the type
specified by a code-block (e.g. json) does not
match the content of that block, a warning is
shown, and our build ends with an error, as we
treat all warnings as errors.

About 90% of our warnings were about trying to
parse json when we have a command-line block.
Most of these have been replaced with

 .. code-block:: none

which turns off highlighting for that block. There
are likely a few cases where "bash" might be
more semantically correct, but I think those can
be updated as we get to them.

src/couchapp/views/collation.rst, after:

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _views/collation:

===============
Views Collation
===============

Basics
======

View functions specify a key and a value to be returned for each row. CouchDB
collates the view rows by this key. In the following example, the ``LastName``
property serves as the key, thus the result will be sorted by ``LastName``:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if (doc.Type == "customer") {
            emit(doc.LastName, {FirstName: doc.FirstName, Address: doc.Address});
        }
    }

CouchDB allows arbitrary JSON structures to be used as keys. You can use JSON
arrays as keys for fine-grained control over sorting and grouping.

Examples
========

The following clever trick would return both customer and order documents.
The key is composed of a customer ``_id`` and a sorting token. Because the key
for order documents begins with the ``_id`` of a customer document, all the
orders will be sorted by customer. Because the sorting token for customers is
lower than the token for orders, the customer document will come before the
associated orders. The values 0 and 1 for the sorting token are arbitrary.

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if (doc.Type == "customer") {
            emit([doc._id, 0], null);
        } else if (doc.Type == "order") {
            emit([doc.customer_id, 1], null);
        }
    }

To list a specific customer with ``_id`` XYZ, and all of that customer's orders,
limit the startkey and endkey ranges to cover only documents for that customer's
``_id``:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey=["XYZ"]&endkey=["XYZ", {}]

It is not recommended to emit the document itself in the view. Instead, to
include the bodies of the documents when requesting the view, request the view
with ``?include_docs=true``.

Sorting by Dates
================

It maybe be convenient to store date attributes in a human readable format
(i.e. as a `string`), but still sort by date. This can be done by converting
the date to a `number` in the :js:func:`emit` function. For example, given
a document with a created_at attribute of ``'Wed Jul 23 16:29:21 +0100 2013'``,
the following emit function would sort by date:

.. code-block:: javascript

    emit(Date.parse(doc.created_at).getTime(), null);

Alternatively, if you use a date format which sorts lexicographically,
such as ``"2013/06/09 13:52:11 +0000"`` you can just

.. code-block:: javascript

    emit(doc.created_at, null);

and avoid the conversion. As a bonus, this date format is compatible with the
JavaScript date parser, so you can use ``new Date(doc.created_at)`` in your
client side JavaScript to make date sorting easy in the browser.

String Ranges
=============

If you need start and end keys that encompass every string with a given prefix,
it is better to use a high value unicode character, than to use a ``'ZZZZ'``
suffix.

That is, rather than:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey="abc"&endkey="abcZZZZZZZZZ"

You should use:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey="abc"&endkey="abc\ufff0"

Collation Specification
=======================

This section is based on the view_collation function in `view_collation.js`_:

.. _view_collation.js: https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=couchdb.git;a=blob;f=share/www/script/test/view_collation.js;hb=HEAD

.. code-block:: javascript

    // special values sort before all other types
    null
    false
    true

    // then numbers
    1
    2
    3.0
    4

    // then text, case sensitive
    "a"
    "A"
    "aa"
    "b"
    "B"
    "ba"
    "bb"

    // then arrays. compared element by element until different.
    // Longer arrays sort after their prefixes
    ["a"]
    ["b"]
    ["b","c"]
    ["b","c", "a"]
    ["b","d"]
    ["b","d", "e"]

    // then object, compares each key value in the list until different.
    // larger objects sort after their subset objects.
    {a:1}
    {a:2}
    {b:1}
    {b:2}
    {b:2, a:1} // Member order does matter for collation.
               // CouchDB preserves member order
               // but doesn't require that clients will.
               // this test might fail if used with a js engine
               // that doesn't preserve order
    {b:2, c:2}

Comparison of strings is done using `ICU`_ which implements the
`Unicode Collation Algorithm`_, giving a dictionary sorting of keys.
This can give surprising results if you were expecting ASCII ordering.
Note that:

- All symbols sort before numbers and letters (even the "high" symbols like
  tilde, ``0x7e``)

- Differing sequences of letters are compared without regard to case, so
  ``a < aa`` but also ``A < aa`` and ``a < AA``

- Identical sequences of letters are compared with regard to case, with
  lowercase before uppercase, so ``a < A``

.. _ICU: http://site.icu-project.org/
.. _Unicode Collation Algorithm: http://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/tr10/

You can demonstrate the collation sequence for 7-bit ASCII characters like this:

.. code-block:: ruby

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'restclient'
    require 'json'

    DB="http://127.0.0.1:5984/collator"

    RestClient.delete DB rescue nil
    RestClient.put "#{DB}",""

    (32..126).each do |c|
        RestClient.put "#{DB}/#{c.to_s(16)}", {"x"=>c.chr}.to_json
    end

    RestClient.put "#{DB}/_design/test", <<EOS
    {
        "views":{
            "one":{
                "map":"function (doc) { emit(doc.x,null); }"
            }
        }
    }
    EOS

    puts RestClient.get("#{DB}/_design/test/_view/one")

This shows the collation sequence to be:

.. code-block:: none

    ` ^ _ - , ; : ! ? . ' " ( ) [ ] { } @ * / \ & # % + < = > | ~ $ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
    a A b B c C d D e E f F g G h H i I j J k K l L m M n N o O p P q Q r R s S t T u U v V w W x X y Y z Z

Key ranges
----------

Take special care when querying key ranges. For example: the query:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey="Abc"&endkey="AbcZZZZ"

will match "ABC" and "abc1", but not "abc". This is because UCA sorts as:

.. code-block:: none

    abc < Abc < ABC < abc1 < AbcZZZZZ

For most applications, to avoid problems you should lowercase the `startkey`:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey="abc"&endkey="abcZZZZZZZZ"

will match all keys starting with ``[aA][bB][cC]``

Complex keys
------------

The query ``startkey=["foo"]&endkey=["foo",{}]`` will match most array keys
with "foo" in the first element, such as ``["foo","bar"]`` and
``["foo",["bar","baz"]]``. However it will not match ``["foo",{"an":"object"}]``

_all_docs
=========

The :ref:`_all_docs <api/db/all_docs>`  view is a special case because it uses
ASCII collation for doc ids, not UCA:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey="_design/"&endkey="_design/ZZZZZZZZ"

will not find ``_design/abc`` because `'Z'` comes before `'a'` in the ASCII
sequence. A better solution is:

.. code-block:: none

    startkey="_design/"&endkey="_design0"

Raw collation
=============

To squeeze a little more performance out of views, you can specify
``"options":{"collation":"raw"}``  within the view definition for native Erlang
collation, especially if you don't require UCA. This gives a different collation
sequence:

.. code-block:: javascript

    1
    false
    null
    true
    {"a":"a"},
    ["a"]
    "a"

Beware that ``{}`` is no longer a suitable "high" key sentinel value. Use a
string like ``"\ufff0"`` instead.
